By . Deni Kirkova . The perfect wine as voted for by UK wine-lovers would be red
, produced in Australia, and cost just £5.83. The ideal bottle for convenience-
led Britons would also feature a screw top and be on offer at a discounted price
 or as part of a multi-buy promotion. The characteristics of the perfect tipple 
are unearthed thanks to new research into British beverage-buying habits. Almost
 40 per cent prefer a glass of rouge, compared to 35 per cent who would choose w
hite . British vino drinkers would also want their beverage available to buy at 
the supermarket, and to be made by a popular, known brand. Red wine narrowly bea
t white as the nation's favourite, with almost 40 per cent preferring a glass of
 rouge, compared to the 35 per cent who chose white. Rosé ranked in third place
 after drawing less than a fifth of the vote (19 per cent). While European wine 
from heavyweight producer countries like France, Spain and Italy remained well l
iked, New World wine - especially that from Australia - was revealed to be leagu
es ahead in the popularity stakes, with 1 in 5 declaring a preference for booze 
from down under. When it comes to splashing the cash (or not), UK shoppers are p
repared to pay, on average, £5.83 for a bottle, with 7 in 10 unwilling to spend
 more than £6. We're also much more likely to buy a wine if it's on offer or di
scounted as more than half of respondents stated that ‘getting a bargain' is a
 main purchasing driver. The perfect wine as voted for by UK wine-lovers would b
e red, produced in Australia, and cost £5.83 . These latest statistics produced
 by specialist wine bottler Cobevco paint a picture of us Britons as creatures o
f habit. Almost half choose to buy a particular wine because it's made by a bran
d they've heard of or because it's a grape variety we've tried before and like. 
Despite this, more than 1 in 3 claim to be ‘knowledgeable' and ‘adventurous'
 when it comes to wine. Almost 80 per cent of us buy our bottles . exclusively a
t the supermarket, preferring the convenience of having . everything in the same
 place to the specialist knowledge of wine . merchants. Only 6 per cent purchase
 wine at an off license, while even fewer (3 per cent) shop for the booze online
. A Cobevco spokesperson said: 'The results of this research really do give us a
n insight into the state of the nation when it comes to wine preferences. 'For t
he first time, we're able to get the low down on what makes British consumers ti
ck in the wine aisle. 'While public confidence and spending is on the up, shoppe
rs' purse strings are still tight so it's no surprise that they're looking for a
n affordable treat in the form of a bargain bottle - most likely one that's on o
ffer. 'What's interesting is that shoppers are now demanding great value wine fr
om far flung producer countries. 'As supply chain technologies advance and overs
eas producers begin to embrace the cost benefits of bottling in the UK, we'll be
gin to see even more top notch yet affordable New World wine hit our shelves.' F
or the first time, we're able to get the low down on what makes British consumer
s tick in the wine aisle .