An Ebola outbreak that began in Guinea four months ago has turned into a cross-b
order African crisis that could spread to more countries, the World Health Organ
isation warned last night. Despite efforts by health authorities and aid groups 
to contain its spread, the WHO has recorded 635 infections, including 399 deaths
, in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia since the outbreak started. The crisis is 
already the deadliest outbreak since Ebola first emerged in central Africa in 19
76, and the number of infections continues to rise. The WHO is calling for drast
ic action to halt the epidemic. Scroll down for video . Aid: Staff from Médecin
s Sans Frontières sitting in the isolation ward at the Donka Hospital in Conakr
y, Guinea, where people infected with the Ebola virus are being treated . Cleanl
iness: Guinean women washing their hands at the entrance of the Sino-Guinean hos
pital of Kipe in the Ratoma municipality, where the first person infected with t
he Ebola virus was treated in Conakry . Campsite: The isolation ward at the Donk
a Hospital in Conakry where people infected with the Ebola virus are being treat
ed . Luis Sambo, WHO Regional Director for . Africa, said: ‘This is no longer 
a country specific outbreak but a . sub-regional crisis that requires firm actio
n by governments and . partners. ‘WHO is gravely . concerned by the on-going c
ross-border transmission into neighbouring . countries as well as the potential 
for further international spread.’ In . response to the worsening crisis, the 
WHO said it will convene a . special meeting of health ministers from 11 countri
es in Ghana on July 2 . and 3 to develop an inter-country response plan. Ebola .
 - with a fatality rate of up to 90 per cent, no vaccine and no known . cure - h
as not previously occurred in the West Africa region. People . there have become
 frightened of health facilities, blaming them for . importing and spreading the
 virus. Guidance: A Liberian Unicef field worker reads an Ebola information post
er on the prevention of the Ebola epidemic, during a meeting at the Mission for 
Today Holy Church, in Newkru Town, Monrovia, Liberia . Guidance notice: A Liberi
an woman reads an information poster on the prevention of the Ebola epidemic . M
edical response: A Liberian nurse walks past a poster illustrating steps for nur
ses to put on protective clothing displayed at the Redemption Hospital where a n
urse reportedly died of Ebola virus in Monrovia . Abandoned: Empty hospital beds
 are seen at Redemption after nurses and patients fled due to Ebola deaths . The
 Ebola virus initially causes raging fever, headaches, muscle pain, conjunctivit
is and weakness, before moving into more severe phases with vomiting, diarrhoea 
and internal and external haemorrhaging. 'This is no longer a country specific o
utbreak but a sub-regional crisis that requires firm action by governments and p
artners' Luis Sambo, World Health Organisation . Mr Sambo said: ‘There is an u
rgent need to intensify response efforts; to promote cross-border collaboration 
and information sharing of suspected cases and contacts... and to mobilise all s
ectors of the community. 'This is the only way that the outbreak will be effecti
vely addressed.’ Medical charity Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) said this we
ek that a lack of understanding has meant people continue to prepare corpses and
 attend funerals of victims, leaving them vulnerable to a disease transmitted by
 touching victims or via bodily fluids. MSF accused civil society groups, govern
ments and religious authorities of failing to acknowledge the scale of the epide
mic, resulting in few prominent figures promoting the fight against the disease.