By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 22:01 EST, 14 February 2014 . | . UPDATE
D: . 22:01 EST, 14 February 2014 . As fans of political thriller 'House of Cards
' settled in to watch season two's premiere tonight, real-life politicians were 
rehearsing their lines. Now This News recruited members of Congress to deliver l
ines originally spoken by power-hungry character Francis J. Underwood, played by
 Oscar winner Kevin Spacey, in the hit Netflix series. But if you thought chilli
ng comments uttered by a malicious - but fictional - character were unsettling, 
just wait until you hear them repeated by people with real power. Scroll down fo
r video . Brutal: Kevin Spacey plays the cut-throat politician Frank Underwood i
n hit Netflix series 'House of Cards' The popular program charts the Democratic 
congressman and House Majority Whip's highly intricate plan to disgrace his enem
ies and obtain a cabinet position after the President goes back on his promise t
o appoint him Secretary of State. Underwood's vengeful plotting and deep-rooted 
corruption has attracted the ire of some politicians - and the adoration of othe
rs. This News producer Ashley Codianni targeted six political representatives - 
three Democrat and three Republican - who are fans of the show to deliver some o
f Underwood's most memorable quotes. But, she told USA Today, it wasn't easy: 'I
t was particularly difficult to get members to participate.' Majority Whip, Kevi
n McCarthy (R-CA), opens the clip with the poignant: 'I never make such big deci
sions so long after sunset and so far from dawn.' Assistant Democratic Leader Ji
m Clyburn (D-SC) means business when he says, 'I have no patience for useless th
ings,' while Trey Gowdy (D-SC) gets into character with a sharp, 'I have zero to
lerance for betrayal.' Cold-hearted: Rep Jeff Duncan (R-SC) nails Underwood's co
mment to his chief of staff, Doug Stamper, 'That's how you devour a whale, Doug,
 one bite at a time' Quiet achiever: Underwood's chief of staff Doug Stamper (pi
ctured), played by Michael Kelly, is a vital cog in his boss's malicious machine
 . Majority Whip: Just like Underwood, who speaks directly to the camera, Rep Ke
vin McCarthy (R-CA) puts his call on hold to say, 'I never make such big decisio
ns so long after sunset and so far from dawn' The lines get increasingly chillin
g, including Donna Edwards' (D-Md.) deadpan, 'Power is a lot like real estate. L
ocation, location, location.' Repeating a line Underwood originally directed to 
his chief of staff, Doug Stamper, politician Jeff Duncan (R-SC) quotes: 'That's 
how you devour a whale, Doug, one bite at a time.' And to end, Sen Tim Scott (R-
SC) repeats this doozy, initially directed to White House chief of staff Linda V
asquez: 'The nature of promises, Linda, is that they are immune, IMMUNE, to chan
ging circumstances.' The plot: 'House of Cards' documents Frank Underwood's fury
 at being betrayed by President Garrett Walker and how, with his equally malicio
us wife, Claire, seek to exact revenge and ultimately gain power . Tough: Sen Ti
m Scott (R-SC) (left) repeats one of Underwood's most scathing lines to White Ho
use Chief of Staff Linda Vasquez (right), 'The nature of promises, Linda, is tha
t they are immune, IMMUNE, to changing circumstances' Direct: Adopting the typic
al Underwood stance, Rep Trey Gowdy (D-SC) declares, 'I have zero tolerance for 
betrayal' Participating: Channeling Democrat representative Frank Underwood, rea
l-life Democrats Jim Clyburn (left) and Donna Edwards (right) repeated some of h
is killer lines with aplomb . Meanwhile, Spacey said he's heard from politicians
 that his portrayal of Underwood is relatively accurate. 'I've had politicians s
ay it's very accurate, probably closer to the truth. I've had others say it's cy
nical and unrealistic. It depends on your perspective,' he told USA Today. 'I wa
s surprised that Kevin McCarthy said publicly something he said to me privately:
 'If I could just kill one member of Congress, I'd never have to worry about ano
ther vote'.' Let the Butchery Begin: Season 2 of the feted Netflix series 'House
 of Cards' begins tonight on Valentine's Day .