(CNN) -- English cricketer Kevin Pietersen has reached an agreement with the Eng
land & Wales Cricket Board (ECB) which paves the way for his return to the natio
nal team. Arguably England's most naturally talented cricketer, Pietersen was dr
opped by selectors in August after it emerged he had sent "provocative" text mes
sages to South Africa's players during a recent Test series between the two team
s. However the South-African born Pietersen must undergo a "reintegration progra
m", before England team director Andy Flower can pick him. "ECB and Kevin Pieter
sen confirm that agreement has been reached concerning a process for his reinteg
ration into the England team during the remainder of 2012," said an ECB statemen
t. "Upon completion of the program, the England selectors will consider Kevin fo
r future matches." Without Pietersen, who was born in South Africa, defending ch
ampions England crashed out of the World T20 tournament in Sri Lanka at the Supe
r Eight stage. Two years ago the allrounder was man of the tournament when Engla
nd, captained by Paul Collingwood, were crowned T20 world champions in the Carib
bean. In May, Pietersen had announced his retirement from T20 and one-day cricke
t, although he was in Sri Lanka working as a broadcaster for ESPN Star Sports. A
ndrew Strauss, who was England captain when Pietersen was frozen out of the team
, has since retired from international cricket, with Alastair Cook the side's ne
w Test skipper. "Kevin Pietersen has apologized to Andrew Strauss and wishes to 
express to all those who support England his regrets at the impact the recent co
ntroversies have had on the England team," continued the ECB statement. "He now 
wishes to put the events of the summer behind him and to focus on regaining his 
place in the England team." The ECB went on to say the issue regarding messages 
sent from Pietersen's Blackberry mobile phone had been resolved. "With regards t
he issue of the BBM messages, due to the fact that Kevin had not retained the BB
M messages, this matter has been successfully concluded through a binding assura
nce provided to ECB by Kevin. "Kevin conceded that the messages exchanged were p
rovocative. The ECB is satisfied, following receipt of this binding assurance, t
hat to the best of his recollection, Kevin did not convey any messages which wer
e derogatory about the England captain, the England team director, the ECB or em
ployees of the ECB. "Furthermore, there was no tactical information whatsoever p
rovided to members of the South African touring party." ECB chairman Giles Clark
e refused to put a timescale on when Pietersen might return. "Kevin has signed a
 central contract today," Clarke told a media conference. "Andy Flower will dete
rmine the progress of the reintegration process. It could be soon, it could be m
uch later." Pietersen admitted the situation had been difficult, but insisted he
 was focused on regaining his place in the team. "It's been a horrible situation
 for all involved," said the 32-year-old cricketer. "But it is time to move forw
ard. All being well I'll be back in an England shirt as soon as possible." Befor
e he was dropped, Pietersen has been integral part of the England Test team sinc
e making his debut in 2005. He has scored 21 centuries in 81 Test matches for hi
s country and was given the honor of captaining England's one-day team in 2008. 
The right-hander, who is an occasional spin bowler, will be hoping to win back h
is place in the team in time for November and December's tour of India.