(CNN) -- Three Delaware day care workers were arrested after police got hold of 
a "disturbing" and "shocking" cell phone video that, authorities say, shows two 
toddlers taking part in a fight the workers had organized. Police said Tuesday t
hat they arrested Tiana Harris, 19; Estefania Myers, 21; and Lisa Parker, 47, wh
o have been charged with assault, reckless endangerment, endangering the welfare
 of a child and conspiracy. On Saturday, authorities responded to an unrelated i
ncident and a person whom police would not identify showed them video of the 3-y
ear-old boys fighting in March. The toddlers were not seriously injured, but the
y were "clearly hurting each other," said Dover Police Capt. Tim Stump. Authorit
ies have not released the video but say one day care worker said "No pinching, o
nly punching" after one of the boys complained that the other had pinched him. T
he video purportedly shows seven other children seated in the room with their ba
cks to the fighting, according to police. "It's not like they didn't know what w
as going on, and they were just encouraging them to continue," Stump said. "One 
of the children attempted to run, but one of the teachers pushes him back into t
he fray. "We are looking into the possibility that this was not the first time i
t happened, but it appears to be isolated, and it seems the administration was i
n the dark about this," he added. Police made the arrests Monday and addressed t
he incident that evening with parents and guardians of the children who attended
 the day care center. A spokesman for the state Division of Family Services said
 the agency dispatched an institutional abuse investigator to work with Dover po
lice during their investigation. "Depending on our findings, these women could b
e prohibited from working in the public sector, especially with children or seni
or citizens," agency spokesman Joseph Smack said, adding that all three women ha
d passed background checks before their employment at the center. "It's rare to 
see a case like this where the staff encouraged this type of behavior," Smack sa
id. Calls to the day care center were not returned, though police say the compan
y's business license has been suspended. The three suspects and their attorneys 
could not be immediately reached for comment. Police said the women have posted 
$10,000 bail and are awaiting trial. More from CNN Justice . U.S. Open tennis re
f charged with killing husband . More body parts found in Toronto area . Woman h
eld captive in basement sues city . Medical examiner rules death of handcuffed s
uspect a suicide .