Phillip Clayton claims his 86-year-old mother Maureen, a retired teacher, died i
n agony, covered in pressure sores, after nurses failed to turn her in her hospi
tal bed for 11 weeks . An 86-year-old woman died covered in 'horrendous' pressur
e sores after nurses failed to turn her in her hospital bed, her son claims. Phi
llip Clayton said his mother died in 'pain and tears' and contracted MRSA as a r
esult of the care she received. He claims a delay in fitting a pacemaker also co
ntributed to his mother's death after she was admitted to hospital with a danger
ously low heart rate. He has launched a complaint against Medway Maritime Hospit
al in Kent after his mother Maureen died in November. NICE guidelines advise adu
lts at high risk should be turned at least once every four hours to prevent pres
sure ulcers. The hospital is now carrying out a review into her care. Mr Clayton
, 56, a public sector worker, said: 'The fact that my mother died is unfortunate
. 'The way she died in pain and tears from the pressure sores is a disgrace and 
in my view, totally unacceptable. 'It is wrong to say my mother would not have d
ied but I do think the care she received shortened her life. 'It was not the rig
ht way for her to die. The way she spent her last few weeks was shocking. 'The r
eal problem is a total lack of leadership which permeates right down to ward lev
el and results in an appalling level of service. 'I do not need apologies or a f
ormal investigation, what I would like to see is change.' Mrs Clayton, a retired
 teacher, was admitted to the hospital on September 13 after a fall at her home 
in Rainham, Kent. Her heart rate was low and she spent three days on a cardiac u
nit before being diagnosed with liver problems and transferred to the Will Adams
 ward. Mr Clayton claims while there staff failed to turn her during her entire 
11 week stay - when it should have been done once every four hours. Mr Clayton s
ays his mother even contracted MRSA as a result of the 'disgraceful' care she re
ceived at Medway Maritime Hospital in Kent (pictured) Mrs Clayton was admitted 
to the hospital on September 13 after a fall at her home in Rainham . He added t
hat they only rearranged the pillows under her back which did not prevent her fr
om contracting painful pressure sores. Three weeks into her stay she was diagnos
ed with MRSA and died on November 27 from renal failure. Mr Clayton added: 'They
 simply rearranged the pillows underneath her. Turning a patient in bed is not r
ocket science. It is a basic nursing skill. 'There was a long delay before she w
as fitted with a temporary pacemaker and then a permanent one. During this time 
she deteriorated. 'If she had been fitted with the pacemaker in the first week a
nd been able to get up, maybe things would have been different.' A spokesperson 
from Medway NHS Foundation Trust, who run the hospital where Mrs Clayton was tre
ated said: 'The Trust takes concerns around care very seriously and is currently
 carrying out a review, as discussed with the family. 'The outcome of the review
 and the actions we are taking as a result of the findings, will be shared with 
the family.'