Once the negotiator arrives at the meeting point, he waits until his satellite p
hone beeps with a text message. In the message is a pair of GPS coordinates. 
  
 He drives five to six more hours until he reaches the new address in the sand a
nd waits for the next text, containing another set of coordinates. The process i
s repeated a minimum of three times before the jihadists finally show themselves
. 
  
 The money is counted on a blanket on which the fighters sit cross-legged, their
 guns at their sides, the official said. The millions are then divided into stas
hes, wrapped in plastic and buried in holes hundreds of miles apart, a detail he
 was able to glean after repeated meetings with the terrorist cell. They mark th
e location on their GPS, keeping track of it just as they track their buried car
s and fuel drums. 
  
 The money is written off by European governments as an aid payment, or else del
ivered through intermediaries, like the French nuclear giant Areva, a state-cont
rolled company that a senior negotiator said paid ‚Ç¨12.5 million in 2011 and ‚Ç
¨30 million in 2013 to free five French citizens. (A spokesman for Areva denied 
in an email that a ransom had been paid.) 
  
 In Yemen, the intermediaries are Oman and Qatar, which pay the ransoms on behal
f of European governments, including more than $20 million for two groups of hos
tages released in the past year, according to European and Yemeni officials. 
  
 Almost a year into her captivity in 2012, Mariasandra Mariani thought she could
 not take it anymore. Her captors were holding her in a landscape of black grani
te in northern Mali, which amplified the suffocating heat. When the wind blew, i
t felt as if someone were holding a blow dryer inches from her skin. She spent a
ll day next to a bucket of water, sponging herself to try to keep cool. 
  
 She told her guard that her modest family, which grows olives in the hills abov
e Florence, did not have the money, and that her government refused to pay ranso
ms. Her captor reassured her. 
  
 ‚ÄúYour governments always say they don‚Äôt pay,‚Äù he told Ms. Mariani. ‚ÄúWhe
n you go back, I want you to tell your people that your government does pay. The
y always pay.‚Äù ||||| Fighters from the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat
, which would later become an official branch of Al Qaeda, perpetrated the 2003 
kidnapping. Their leaders came from Algeria‚Äôs northern coastal region and were
 not used to driving in the sands of the Sahara, said the hostages. The jihadist
s grabbed tourists from Germany who were traveling on motorcycles, but did not k
now how to operate the bikes. They forced the tourists to drive with a gunman ri
ding on the back of the seat. 
  
 The leader of the operation, Abderrazak el Para, whom the French news media cal
led ‚Äúthe Bin Laden of the Sahara,‚Äù appears almost giddy the first time he mo
unts a motorcycle. His European captive ‚Äî apparently not yet aware that he has
 been kidnapped ‚Äî shows him how to stand up properly in the seat. 
  
 ‚ÄúThis video shows, No. 1, the lack of sophistication of the jihadists,‚Äù sai
d Mr. Atallah, who reviewed the video. ‚ÄúIt also crucially shows that they were
 ad-libbing. They had never done this before.‚Äù 
  
 Ingo Bleckmann, a 60-year-old inventor from Salzburg, Austria, initially though
t he was being robbed when the militants confronted him. He said he quickly real
ized he was in the hands of ideological extremists. |||||