By . Ryan Lipman . A NSW father allegedly arranged an illegal marriage between h
is 12-year-old daughter and a 26-year-old man and gave her sexual advice includi
ng that she should have unprotected sex. The 61-year-old father, who cannot be n
amed for legal reasons, allegedly organised his daughter's marriage to the Leban
ese immigrant because he wanted to stop her from 'committing a life of sin'. He 
appeared at Burwood Local Court via video link on Wednesday and has been charged
 with procuring a child under 14 for unlawful sexual activities, and being an ac
cessory before the fact to sexual intercourse with a person under 14. Scroll dow
n for video . Escorted to court: A 26-year-old, pictured, faced Burwood Local Co
urt on Wednesday after illegally marrying a girl who was 12 years old at the tim
e of marriage in January . Cannot be identified: Since the illegal marriage, the
 26-year-old man and the girl have engaged in sexual activities daily, as stated
 in court documents . The 26-year-old Lebanese man has since had his student vis
a cancelled and is in immigration detention after being charged with 25 counts o
f sexual intercourse with a child aged between 10 and 14 years. Escorted by guar
ds contracted by the immigration department, the man also appeared at Burwood Lo
cal Court on Wednesday. Court documents say the Hunter Valley girl met the 26-ye
ar-old University of Newcastle student at a mosque in November last year after h
e approached her father and asked to meet her. Police allege the young girl's fa
ther enabled his daughter's sexual assault by organising the unlawful marriage -
 including allowing them to swap phone numbers and meet three times in the famil
y home before the ceremony. The father gave the girl sexual advice about contrac
eption on the day of the wedding, according to court papers filed by police in s
upport of an AVO application against the girl's father, The Daily Telegraph repo
rted. 'The advice was that she should not use the contraceptive pill nor should 
(her husband) wear a condom when they have sexual intercourse,' the papers said.
 It is alleged they were married in an Islamic ceremony in the living room in Ja
nuary this year. The couple spent their wedding night at a motel in the Hunter r
egion where they had sex several times, police allege. Cases adjourned: After ap
pearing in court on Wednesday, both men had their cases adjourned until June, wh
en they are expected to make a plea . A week after the wedding, he asked the gir
l's older siblings to put two single mattresses next to each other to make a que
en size bed so the couple had a bed in the family home. He also asked the girl, 
now aged 13, if she needed to shower before morning prayer on one occasion, cour
t documents show. 'The (girl) indicated that this is how the defendant would hav
e known that (they) were engaged in sexual intercourse,' the papers claim. Islam
 requires people to shower after sex before they commence prayer, the girl alleg
edly told police. The imam who performed the ceremony, Muhammad Riaz Tasawar, pl
ead guilty to solemnising the marriage and was fined $500 after. Court documents
 state that since the marriage the pair have engaged in sexual activities on a d
aily basis. 'The girl has expressed a strong desire to start a family with the 2
6-year-old,' the police report states. Both men had their cases adjourned until 
June 18, where they are expected to make a plea. Sorry we are not currently acce
pting comments on this article.