Phnom Penh (CNN) -- More than 20 striking garment workers were injured this week
, including two pregnant women, during clashes with police outside a factory in 
Kampong Speu Province, Cambodia, a labor leader said. Roughly 4,000 workers have
 walked off the job at a factory owned by Sabrina (Cambodia) Garment Manufacturi
ng, which supplies Nike and Lululemon Athletica. They are demanding a $14 monthl
y increase, from the $74 they make now, said Say Sokmy, secretary-general of the
 Free Trade Union of Workers of the Kingdom of Cambodia. Police used stun batons
 to disperse strikers on Monday, she said, injured more than twenty. Both Nike a
nd Lululemon released statements, expressing concern about the incident. "As out
lined in Nike's Code of Conduct, Nike requires its contract manufacturers to res
pect their employees' rights to freedom of association," the U.S.-based company 
said in a statement. It continued: "Workers are employed by the contract factori
es, not by Nike, and wages and compensation are the responsibility of the factor
ies. It is our understanding that this factory raised its own minimum wage on Ma
y 1 and pays above the country's minimum wage." Vancouver-based Lululemon Athlet
ica said its sustainability teams are monitoring events and are in daily contact
 with the factory to ensure workers' safety. "We require all of our vendors to u
phold and respect the workers' rights around the freedom of association and coll
ective bargaining as stated in our lululemon Code of Ethics," said Therese Hayes
, vice president of sustainability. "The current situation deeply concerns us an
d we will continue to be in close contact with our factory partner, and take any
 immediate actions if necessary." Both companies stressed that the factory is pa
rt of Better Factories Cambodia (BFC), a program established by the Internationa
l Labor Organization to monitor workplaces and offer advice. According to BFC, t
he garment industry employs some 400,000 workers and accounts for $4 billion, or
 roughly 80%, of Cambodia's total export revenue. Most of what's made is exporte
d to the European Union and the United States. READ MORE: Inside a Bangladesh ga
rment factory that plays by the rules . OPINION: Stop cashing in on Bangladeshi 
workers . Journalist Gregory Pellechi reported from Phnom Penh; CNN's Elizabeth 
Joseph reported from Hong Kong.