In 2004, Sen. John Kerry entered the campaign against incumbent President George
 W. Bush with a seemingly unassailable advantage on a sensitive issue -- the lib
eral Kerry served in the Vietnam War, and the conservative Bush didn't. Rather t
han avoid the topic, Bush supporters came up with the notorious "Swift Boat" cam
paign that raised enough questions about Kerry's war record to negate a major st
rength. Such "attack the strength" tactics have been a staple of this year's pre
sidential race, with both sides trying to undermine perceived advantages of the 
other. The latest example is a new Web video that accuses President Barack Obama
 of engineering classified leaks and claiming undue credit on his signature fore
ign policy achievement: the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. The premise is sim
ple: In a political environment where perception often trumps policy, mount earl
y challenges to your opponent's strongest attributes to raise questions and crea
te an alternative image in the minds of voters. For example, the Obama campaign 
has attacked certain Republican nominee Mitt Romney's successful business career
, portraying the venture capitalist company he founded as a pioneer in outsourci
ng American jobs. The purpose was to blunt Romney's persistent claim that his bu
siness background made him better qualified than Obama to manage the slow-recove
ring economy, the most important issue to voters. Meanwhile, Romney's team is ch
allenging Obama on the volatile issue of reforming Medicare, the popular health 
care program for senior citizens. By naming House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan as h
is running mate last week, Romney and his team knew the Obama campaign would att
ack Ryan's proposal to partially privatize Medicare, so they have tried to turn 
the tables by accusing the president this week of cutting more than $700 billion
 out of the government-run system. Both of the attacks are misleading or untrue,
 according to independent assessments. Websites such as PolitiFact.com and Fact.
Check.org ruled that outsourcing by Romney's company, Bain Capital, occurred aft
er he gave up daily management responsibilities in 1999. On Medicare, the nonpar
tisan Congressional Budget Office found that reforms to the program under Obama'
s 2010 health care law resulted in hundreds of billions of dollars in savings, r
ather than spending cuts that reduced benefits, as alleged by the Romney campaig
n. PolitiFact rated the Romney campaign's claim as "mostly false." To Republican
 strategist Ron Bonjean , the Romney camp's maneuver on Medicare was "a brillian
t move." "They are going to be attacked on it anyway. They have 'jujitsued' this
," Bonjean told CNN on Friday, adding: "It's a good idea to try to neutralize th
is issue right now, which I think they are being very effective at." Outside gro
ups supporting the candidates also are taking part. A video spot by Priorities U
SA Action, a super-PAC backing Obama, sought to link Romney to the death of the 
wife of a steel worker who lost his job at a plant closed down by Bain Capital. 
The ad, which has yet to be scheduled for broadcast, was rated "false" by Politi
Fact. Now, a little-known group of former special forces members called the Spec
ial Operations OPSEC Education Fund has released the 22-minute Web video that cr
iticizes Obama on the bin Laden takedown. A spokeswoman says the group has raise
d about $1 million toward an advertising campaign in some key swing states, but 
refused to discuss donors. Over a picture of Obama, the video's narrator says th
at the group's mission is to stop politicians from using sensitive intelligence 
about the bin Laden raid and other clandestine programs for political benefit. T
he organization, which describes itself as nonpartisan, shares an office with tw
o Republican political consulting firms in Alexandria, Virginia. Its spokesman, 
Chad Kolton, worked for the Bush administration as a spokesman for the Director 
of National Intelligence, and its president ran for Congress as a Republican. To
 Darrell West of the Brookings Institution, the video evokes memories of the Swi
ft Boat campaign that mounted a barrage of negative attacks against Kerry's war 
record. "Obama's strong suit actually is on national security," said West, the v
ice president and director of governance studies at Brookings. "He's the guy who
 got bin Laden, and that's been a central claim of his campaign. So there's alwa
ys a risk of the opposition coming in with this type of ad to try to undermine t
he president's credibility and take away what is really his strong suit." The pr
esident has regularly cited the killing of bin Laden as a campaign promise he fu
lfilled, and the head of special operations, Adm. William  McRaven, recently tol
d CNN that Obama deserved credit. "Make no mistake about it: It was the presiden
t of the United States that shouldered the burden for this operation, that made 
the hard decisions," McRaven said. Like other top officials, including Defense S
ecretary Leon Panetta and former Defense Secretary Robert Gates, McRaven also ha
s been highly critical of recent leaks about clandestine operations. The White H
ouse has denied leaking classified information, and two federal prosecutors have
 been assigned to investigate recent leaks about the Stuxnet virus and drone str
ike operations. Republicans blame Obama for the leaks that occurred on his watch
, and they call for an independent investigation. The "attack the strength" tact
ic is nothing new, but gained prominence last decade when utilized by Republican
 strategist Karl Rove, who guided Bush's two presidential campaigns . "Karl Rove
 did something that many other political operatives don't do, and it's really an
 element of why he's a unique figure in American political life," journalist Way
ne Slater said in a PBS Frontline documentary titled "Karl Rove: The Architect."
 "He understands that while other people look for the weakness in an opponent an
d exploit that, Rove has long looked at the strength of an opponent." That was p
articularly true of the Swift Boat attacks on Kerry, said Slater, co-author of t
he book "Bush's Brain: How Karl Rove Made George W. Bush Presidential." "The No.
 1 thing that John Kerry offered was his heroic service in Vietnam," Slater said
 in the PBS documentary, "and so what Rove did was attack the strength of Kerry,
 not his weakness." Others clearly  took notice. In attacking Romney's backgroun
d at Bain Capital, the Obama campaign is following the example of former House S
peaker Newt Gingrich from the Republican primary campaign. Gingrich's criticism 
that Romney's business record included shutting down companies and outsourcing j
obs got panned by many fellow Republicans. In response, Gingrich said his attack
s were only the initial salvos of an all-out assault on the issue that Romney wo
uld face from the Obama campaign if he became the nominee.