Sicily, Italy (CNN) -- The Portuguese CASA 295 military plane lifts off from an 
airstrip in Sicily and roars into the skies above the Mediterranean, scouring th
e blue seas below for signs of life. The state-of-the-art surveillance aircraft 
is flying for Frontex, the European Union's border patrol agency. Its mission is
n't only to stop people from being smuggled onto the continent's southern shores
 -- it's to save lives. The plane patrols the Mediterranean Sea south of Sicily,
 including the area around Lampedusa, an Italian island near the African coast t
hat migrants have been trying to reach in often unseaworthy boats. In October mo
re than 300 migrants died when their boat capsized near these shores, and Fronte
x is hoping to prevent that from happening again. INFOGRAPHIC: How illegal immig
rants enter the EU . The Frontex crew took CNN along on a surveillance flight. H
uman trafficking in the region is big business, and we were not allowed to ident
ify any of the mission's crew member for fear they could be targeted by gangs of
 smugglers. "On the missions, every week we find three or four targets of intere
st," the aircraft's captain told CNN. "The main goal is to detect targets of int
erest that Frontex [give us the coordinates for] ... we go there and we check it
 out and then we transmit everything to Frontex." Fishing boats are often target
s of interest because they are sometimes used to smuggle people from Africa to E
urope. Often those vessels will be old, rusty and overloaded with migrants as th
e traffickers try to maximize their profit per journey. In some cases, sailing s
hips have been used for people smuggling as well. On our flight the crew also sp
otted an abandoned rubber boat, which might have been left there by people who m
ade it to shore in Europe. OPINION: Europe's immigration nightmare just beginnin
g . The plane is outfitted with infrared sensors and a belly camera that can ide
ntify and track targets at great distances. The crew will look for vessels that 
have an unusually high number of people on board, but they're also checking to s
ee whether a ship move strangely in the water -- a possible sign that it is over
loaded with migrants under deck. Several high profile incidents involving migran
t boats from northern Africa have thrust the issue of illegal immigration to the
 forefront of European politics -- and now the EU is looking for ways to better 
regulate immigration while protecting the lives of those who try to make it to t
he continent. An increasing number of ill-equipped migrant ships are getting int
o trouble during their voyages towards Europe, and the Italian Navy and Coast Gu
ard often need to speed to the rescue to save those on board. Most of them end u
p in migrant camps in Italy, Greece or Malta. The Pozallo camp in southern Sicil
y is one of the bigger ones, with over 400 people living on site. OPINION: EU mu
st solve crisis to deserve Nobel Prize . One of those recently saved from the se
as is Henry Linus from Nigeria. He says the ship he was on got into a storm and 
was adrift at sea before they were rescued. "There was no food, [there was] excr
ement inside the boat. People were vomiting inside the boat, we were vomiting ev
erywhere. It was horrible," he told CNN. Linus added that if given the chance to
 do it all over again, he would not try to make the treacherous journey to Europ
e. Andrea Tassara is the Commander of the Italian Coast guard in Pozallo, one of
 the busiest Coast Guards in Europe. He always has two high-speed boats on stand
by that can go about 30 knots and take on as many as 130 people from other boats
 or from the sea. Tassara says he and his men are appalled at some of the boats 
they come upon while patrolling the Mediterranean. "The most dangerous thing is 
when you see a boat that is made of really old wood. God knows how it is held to
gether and it can fall apart just by our ships coming close," he said. But many 
people are so desperate that they are willing to take their chances. That cost m
ore than 300 people their lives on October 3rd, when a boat originating from Lib
ya was so overloaded and unstable that it capsized when a fire on board the vess
el caused its passengers to panic. OPINION: What's the place of outsiders in Eur
ope? Most of those who drowned were Eritreans. At the Pozallo camp we met an Eri
trean man who said that he was supposed to be on the boat that sank, but that it
 was so full he was rejected and had to wait for a later ship. He says many peop
le who had spent the last couple of years fighting their way through African des
erts to the coast had died in the shipwreck. "Some of us had parents or wives or
 children on there, we were part of that group. But fortunately the boat was ful
l and we were obliged to stay," he told CNN. Italian Coast Guard Commander Tassa
ra says the increase in migrant boats trying to get to Europe is huge, even thou
gh he cannot put numbers on it. He says the waves of ships usually stop in the f
all and winter months, but this year there has been no let-up. He attributes tha
t in part to good weather conditions on the sea, but also to the growing despair
 in places like Syria, Eritrea, and Nigeria, where many are now trying to flee t
he violent extremist group Boko Haram. It does not look like those waves will st
op. Even if Europe further beefs up its patrols on its borders, they might be ab
le to contain migration for a while, but they will never be able to stop it.