Daiju Azuma. CC-BY-SA 
  
 Toxic chemicals are accumulating in marine creatures in Earth’s deepest ocean
ic trenches, the first measurements of organic pollutants in these regions have 
revealed. 
  
 “We often think deep-sea trenches are remote and pristine, untouched by human
s,” says Alan Jamieson, a deep-ocean researcher at the University of Aberdeen,
 UK. But Jamieson and his colleagues have found man-made organic pollutants at h
igh levels in shrimp-like crustaceans called amphipods that they collected from 
two deep-ocean trenches, he told a conference on deep-ocean exploration in Shang
hai on 8 June. 
  
 “It’s really surprising to find pollutants so deep in the ocean at such hig
h concentrations,” says Jeffrey Drazen, a marine ecologist at the University o
f Hawaii in Honolulu. 
  
 Before this work — which has not yet been published — the study of pollutan
ts in deep-sea organisms had been limited to those that live at depths of 2,000 
metres or less1, 2. The latest research tested for levels of organic chemicals i
n amphipods collected at 7,000–10,000 metres depth, from the Mariana Trench in
 the western Pacific Ocean — the world’s deepest trench — and from the Ker
madec Trench near New Zealand. 
  
 The creatures were captured during two international expeditions in 2014, when 
researchers lowered uncrewed landers into the trenches as part of a research pro
gramme to study deep-ocean ecosystems, sponsored by the US National Science Foun
dation. 
  
 Polluted depths 
  
 In both trenches, the amphipods contained polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) — 
used to make plastics and as anti-fouling agents to stop barnacles growing on sh
ips' hulls — and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), which are used as fla
me retardants. 
  
 Both chemicals are man-made and belong to a category of carbon-based compounds 
called persistent organic pollutants (POPs) because they are hard to break down.
 Production of PCBs — which are carcinogens — has been banned in many countr
ies since the late 1970s; PBDEs, which animal studies suggest may disrupt hormon
e systems and interfere with neural development, are only now being phased out. 
  
 The concentrations of PCBs in the amphipods from the Mariana Trench were partic
ularly high, and 15 times greater than those found in the Kermadec. “It’s ev
en higher than in the estuaries of two of the most polluted rivers — the Pearl
 River and the Liao River — in China,” says Jamieson. 
  
 By contrast, the Kermadec Trench contains PBDEs at concentrations five times gr
eater than the Mariana — and at a level that is higher than in the coastal wat
ers of New Zealand’s North Island, the study finds. 
  
 Douglas Bartlett, a deep-sea microbiologist at the Scripps Institution of Ocean
ography in San Diego, California, says that the discovery is fascinating. “It 
hits home very dramatically that the trenches are not that remote after all, and
 the world is all connected,” he says. 
  
 That sinking feeling 
  
 “The take-home message is that when you dump rubbish into the sea, it will ul
timately sink. When [pollutants] fall into the trenches, they have nowhere else 
to go. So they’re just going to keep building up,” says Jamieson. Eventually
, the trenches will have higher levels of pollutants than in estuaries, where ch
emicals are constantly flushed out to open waters, he says. 
  
 The researchers suspect that the proximity of the Mariana Trench to large plast
ic manufacturers in Asia, as well as to a long-term US military base on the isla
nd of Guam, may have contributed to its high PCB levels. The waters above the tr
ench are also part of the North Pacific gyre, a system of strong swirling ocean 
currents that might be sucking materials on the surface down into the deep sea. 
Both the Mariana and Kermadec trenches are around 11 kilometres deep. “It soun
ds quite deep, but it’s not in terms of pollutant transport,” says Jamieson.
 
  
 The high POP levels are a cause for concern, researchers say. The deep-ocean ca
nyons are “untapped natural resources” — a potential supply of organisms t
hat could be valuable for a range of commercial applications, including drug dis
covery, but which might be affected by the pollutants, says Drazen. 
  
 Scientists think that deep-ocean trenches could also be an important carbon sin
k, playing a key part in regulating climate, Bartlett says. In part, that is bec
ause in the trenches, carbon is pushed deep into Earth's interior when one tecto
nic plate is thrust underneath another. The trenches are also teeming with micro
bes that may convert carbon-containing chemicals into forms that aren’t easily
 converted into carbon dioxide. 
  
 “If somehow microbial activities are adversely affected because of all this p
ollution, I’d wonder what that’s doing to the carbon cycle in general,” sa
ys Bartlett. ||||| World Amphipoda Database 
  
 (part of WoRMS - the World Register of Marine Species) 
  
 Introduction 
  
 The amphipods belong to the very diverse crustacean class Malacostraca, which i
ncludes other common groups such as crabs, lobsters and shrimp. The order Amphip
oda is part of the superorder Peracarida, uniting a diverse group of small shrim
p-like taxa that brood their young in a pouch, with no independent larval disper
sal stage. 
  
 Amphipods are unique in the possession of three pairs of pleopods and three pai
rs of uropods. In a small minority of cases secondary reduction of the abdomen m
ay result in a loss of one or more pairs (e.g. the Caprellidae). No other malaco
stracan group possesses more than one pair of uropods. The name Amphipoda means 
‘different feet’ and refers to the different forms of the pereopods (legs) w
hich contrasts with the related Isopoda meaning ‘same feet’. Amphipods are v
ariously known as, scuds, shrimp or sideswimmers. Those amphipods that have colo
nised the land are often referred to as landhoppers and beach dwellers are calle
d sandhoppers or beach/sand fleas. 
  
 The order Amphipoda is very diverse and currently contains 10,207 species which
 are divided into six suborders: 
  
 Suborder Amphilochidea (88 families; 682 genera; 4,140 species) 
  
 Suborder Colomastigidea (2 families; 3 genera; 55 species) 
  
 Suborder Hyperiidea (35 families; 76 genera; 283 species) 
  
 Suborder Hyperiopsidea (3 families; 4 genera; 13 species) 
  
 Suborder Pseudingolfiellidea (1 families; 1 genera; 4 species) 
  
 Suborder Senticaudata (99 families; 907 genera; 5,638 species) 
  
 Amphipods range in size from a millimetre in length to the supergiant amphipod 
Alicella gigantea at 340 mm. Amphipods can be found in all marine habitats (even
 the deepest ocean trenches e.g. Hirondellea dubia), and have also colonised fre
shwaters and terrestrial habitats; even ectoparasitic groups are also known amon
g them. There are at least 1870 amphipod species and subspecies recorded from fr
esh or inland waters accounting for ~ 20 % of the total known amphipod diversity
. Amphipods are important herbivores, detritivores, micropredators and scavenger
s in most environments and they form an important component of marine and freshw
ater ecosystems. 
  
 History of the database 
  
 The World Amphipoda Database arose from a merger in 2010 of the World Amphipoda
 List compiled over many years by Jim Lowry (Australian Museum), with the Europe
an Register of Marine Species (ERMS) amphipod list, compiled by Mark Costello wi
th the help of Denise Bellan-Santini and Jean-Claude Dauvin, and edited up until
 2013 with significant additions from the RAMS Amphipoda (Antarctic) list (compi
led by Claude De Broyer) and from other regional editors. 
  
 The original editors of Amphipoda within WoRMS were Mark Costello, Denise Bella
n-Santini, Jean Claude-Dauvin, & Wim Vader, with Claude de Broyer as Editor of t
he Register of Antarctic Marine Species (RAMS) Amphipoda. The north-Atlantic lis
ts were compiled by Mark Costello with assistance from Louise Collier, from Cost
ello et al. (1989), Brattegard (1997) and Vader et al (1997). The Mediterranean 
and south Atlantic lists were compiled from Bellan-Santini et al. (1998), Marque
s and Bellan-Santini (1990, 1991), and Lopes et al. (1993). Additional species w
ere then found in Dauvin (1999), and for Arctic seas, in Palerud and Vader (1991
) and Vader (1998). Jim Lowry’s unpublished list was added to WoRMS in 2010 wh
en he became editor of the Amphipoda. To provide sufficient expert knowledge for
 maintaining the database, we have now (2013) formed an editorial team to whom t
he queries on particular taxa should be addressed. 
  
 Editorial Team: 
  
 Coordinating Editors 
  
 Horton, Tammy: edits higher level amphipod taxa, Lysianassoidea and groups with
out a specialist editor. 
  
 Lowry, Jim: edits higher level amphipod taxa, Talitridae, Lysianassoidea and gr
oups without a specialist editor. 
  
 De Broyer, Claude: edits higher level amphipod taxa, Lysianassoidea and groups 
without a specialist editor. Also a RAMS editor. 
  
 Editors [tree] 
  
 Links to other Amphipod sites 
  
 Feedback 
  
 The authors welcome input from visitors to this website who detect errors or om
issions: we strive to maintain the website as both a comprehensive and an up-to-
date resource. We aim to update the database regularly and frequently. 
  
 The taxonomy in the World Amphipod Database is edited and updated by volunteer 
experts, assisted by the database management team at VLIZ. 
  
 Authors are encouraged to send copies of publications to the respective editor 
with details of new or revised nomenclature. 
  
 References 
  
 Bellan-Santini, D, Karaman G.S., Ledoyer, M., Myers, A.A., Ruffo, S. and Vader,
 W. 1998. The Amphipoda of the Mediterranean, Part 4. Memoires de 1 'lnstitut Oc
eanographique, Monaco 13: XXVII- XLIV, 815-959. 
  
 Bellan-Santini, D. and Dauvin J.C. 1997. Ampeliscidae (Amphipoda) from Iceland 
with a description of a new species (contribution to the BIOICE research program
me). Journal of Natural History 31: 1157-1173. 
  
 Brattegard, T. 1997. Order Amphipoda, Suborder Caprellidea (Phylum Crustacea) -
 caprellidean amphipods or skeleton shrimps. In: Brattegard, T., Holthe, T. (edi
tors), Distribution of marine, benthic macro-organisms in Norway. A tabulated ca
talogue. Directorate for Nature Management, Trondheim, 23-214. 
  
 Costello, M.J., Holmes, J.M.C., McGrath, D. and Myers, A.A. 1989. A review and 
catalogue of the Amphipoda (Crustacea) in Ireland. Irish Fisheries Investigation
s, Series B (Marine), No.33: 1-70. 
  
 Dauvin J.C. 1999. Mise it jour de la Iiste des especes d'Amphipodes (Crustaces 
Peracarides) presents en Manche. Cahiers de Biologie Marine 40: 165-183. 
  
 Lopes, M.F.R., Marques, J.C. and Bellan-Santini, D. 1993. The benthic amphipod 
fauna of the Azores (Portugal): an up-to date annotated list of species, and som
e biogeographic considerations. Crustaceana 65: 204-217. 
  
 Marques, J.C. and Bellan-Santini, D. 1993. Biodiversity in the ecosystem of the
 Portuguese continental shelf: distributional ecology and the role of benthic am
phipods. Marine Biology 115: 555-564. 
  
 Palerud R. and Vader W. 1991 . Marine Amphipoda Gammaridea in North-East Atlant
ic and Norwegian Arctic. Tromura 68: 97 pp. 
  
 Vader W. 1998. Checklist of Amphipoda Gammaroidea ill Barents Sea area. 
  
 Vader, W., Brattegard, T., Buhl-Mortensen, L. and Larsen, K. M. 1997. Order Amp
hipoda, Suborder Gammaridea (Phylum Crustacea) - gammaridean amphipods. In: Brat
tegard, T., HoIthe, T. (editors). Distribution of marine, benthic macro-organism
s in Norway. A tabulated catalogue. Directorate for Nature Management, Trondheim
, 191-212. 
  
 Citation 
  
 By downloading or consulting data from this website, the visitor acknowledges t
hat he/she agrees that data from this website, if extracted for secondary analys
is resulting in a publication, should be cited as follows: 
  
 If any data constitutes a substantial proportion of the records used in seconda
ry analyses (i.e. more than 25% of the data are derived from this source, or the
 data are essential to arrive at the conclusion of the analysis), the authors/ma
nagers of the database should be contacted. It may be useful to contact us direc
tly in case there are additional data that may strengthen the analysis or there 
are features of the data that are important to consider but may not have been ap
parent from the metadata. |||||