By . Cindy Tran for Daily Mail Australia . and Aap . Members of feminist punk ba
nd Pussy Riot have compared Australia’s asylum seeker policy to the Russian pr
isoner conditions at Sydney's Festival of Dangerous Ideas on Saturday night. Mas
ha Alyokhina and Nadya Tolokonnikova opened their panel discussion at the Sydney
 Opera House, by addressing a proposal made by Australian activists that the pai
r boycott the festival, the Guardian reports. 'We were surprised by the problems
 here, such as detention camps, which are similar to what is happening in Russia
,' Tolokonnikova told an audience in Sydney. Masha Alyokhina and Nadya Tolokonni
kova opened their panel discussion at Sydney's Festival of Dangerous Ideas . The
 pair met activists on Friday night to discuss the calls for them to boycott the
 festival over links between its co-organisers at the St James Ethics Centre and
 the federal government's asylum seeker strategy. Instead of refusing to attend,
 the pair said that speaking at the festival would hopefully draw attention to t
he topic. The members also called on Australia to withdraw its invitation to Pre
sident Vladimir Putin to attend this year's G20 summit. Members of a feminist pu
nk band Pussy Riot have compared Australia's asylum seeker policy to the Russian
 prisoner conditions . Alyokhina and Tolokonnikova were both sentenced to two ye
ars in jail after staging a protest performance in a Moscow cathedral in 2012 . 
'We think that this person has no place at the G20,' Alyokhina said. When Prime 
Minister Tony Abbott addressed calls for Putin to be excluded from the G20 on Fr
iday, he said it was weighing on his mind. 'It's not a decision which Australia 
really has a right to make unilaterally,' he told reporters. Alyokhina and Tolok
onnikova were both sentenced to two years in jail and were released from prison 
in December 2013 after staging a protest performance in a Moscow cathedral in 20
12. But the women said the situation in Russia was so repressive they would not 
be able to repeat their cathedral performance. Since their imprisonment, both wo
men have campaigned to defend the rights of prisoners. Members of the all-girl p
unk band Pussy Riot - Nadezhda Tolokonnikova, Maria Alyokhina and Yekaterina Sam
utsevich sit in a glass-walled cage during a court hearing in Moscow in August 2
012 . Nadezhda Tolokonnikova of Russian punk group Pussy Riot walks in front of 
the cathedral of Christ of Savior in Moscow in December 2013 .