Vitali Klitschko has confirmed that he will defend his world heavyweight boxing 
title against former champion Shannon Briggs on October 16 in his adopted home c
ity of Hamburg. The Ukrainian last put his WBC belt up for grabs in May against 
Albert Sosnowski in what he has said will be his last year as a professional fig
hter. The 39-year-old, who has successfully defended the crown four times, will 
face the American, 38, for the first time as he seeks to extend his 40-2 career 
record. "I am really happy that I will have a fight in Hamburg again, the place 
where I started my professional career. The o2 World is a great arena and the fa
ns in Hamburg are real box experts and will make a perfect atmosphere," Klitschk
o told his website. "Shannon Briggs is not only big at talking but also big in t
he ring and a very tough challenger. He is more experienced than me, has more pr
ofessional fights on his record and is one of the hardest punchers in the divisi
on. I will be very well prepared together with my trainer Fritz Sdunek." Briggs,
 nicknamed "The Cannon," has a record of 51-5 with 45 victories by knockout -- 2
7 in the first round. He has previously beaten former world champions George For
eman, Ray Mercer and Sergej Liakhovich. "For a long time I have been trying hard
 to fight a Klitschko. Most of their opponents are scared to death when they ste
p into the ring. I will put a lot of pressure on Klitschko and take the fight to
 him. Klitschko can enjoy his belt for a few more weeks; after October 16 it wil
l be mine!" Klitschko's younger brother Wladimir, the IBF, WBO and IBO champion,
 will face former WBC titleholder Samuel Peter of Nigeria in another Germany-bas
ed bout in Frankfurt on September 11. Britain's WBA beltholder David Haye, who b
oth Klitschkos have accused of being scared to fight them, may next fight former
 Olympic champion Audley Harrison, according to promoter Barry Hearn. Hearn, who
se son Eddie is involved in the talks with Haye's manager Adam Booth, said the f
ight would be a boost for British boxing. "In the heavyweight division, there is
 nothing else out there as far as British fight fans are concerned, Harrison-Hay
e is enormous," he told Sky Sports News. "The fantastic thing about David Haye i
s that he's burst on the scene and done a fantastic job against [Nikolay] Valuev
, boxed the ears off [John] Ruiz and put him into retirement. He's hot. "Audley 
Harrison, in my opinion, is a bigger draw. People don't know what to expect from
 Audley Harrison, he's been talking a great fight for years, never delivered it.
 He's at that last-stage saloon -- every fight fan in England wants to see this 
fight."