By . Belinda Robinson . and Amanda Williams . The adorable toddler who dropped t
he f-bomb after taking the ALS Ice Bucket . Challenge has apologised for her 'na
ughty' behavior. Three-year-old Scarlett-Rose Davis can be seen sitting in front
 of a camera with her grandmother who makes her admit that saying F***ing hell w
as a naughty word and she promises not to say it again. Looking extremely uncomf
ortable and squirming as though she wants to run away, Scarlett-Rose dutifully r
epeats the words after her grandmother Carla Davis-Ball as she is coaxed to say 
them. Scroll down for video . Now say sorry! Mrs Davis-Ball tells her granddaugh
ter to apologise for using the bad language . Ms Davis-Ball, from Coalpool in Wa
lsall, West Midlands, said: 'I couldn't believe it when she came out with that l
anguage' Mrs Davis-Ball said: 'Tell them that it was a naughty word and you're n
ot going to say it again are you?' Scarlett-Rose repeats: 'It was a naughty word
, and I'm not gonna say it again.' She . then rubs her eyes, climbs out of her c
hair and runs towards something more interesting in the back of . her garden. Th
e toddler became an unlikely . internet sensation after taking part in the Ice B
ucket Challenge before . promptly blurting out the F-word - much to the horror o
f her . grandmother. Scarlett-Rose had begged her grandparents to let her take p
art in the . craze which is currently taking the world by storm in aid of motor 
. neurone disease. But . her grandmother said she 'could have died' when the lit
tle . girl blurted out 'f***ing hell' after tipping an icy bucket of water . ove
r her head - and the episode was caught on camera. Mrs Davis-Ball recorded the f
ootage of Scarlett-Rose being doused with warm water from a cooking pot after no
minating a young friend called Marshall to take the challenge last weekend. Afte
r she put . it on Facebook and her husband Stuart Ball, 33, uploaded it to YouTu
be, . it has been viewed more than 40,000 times since Monday, and has been share
d several thousand times around the world. The 40-year-old, from Coalpool in Wal
sall, West Midlands, said: 'I couldn't believe it when she came out with that la
nguage. 'She has picked up a few bad words when we have gone out for meals or in
to town. 'It did shock me but she's so clever I'm not surprised she's picked it 
up. We told her it was a naughty word. Potty mouth: Three-year-old Scarlett-Rose
 Davis turned the air blue during an ice bucket challenge - and her doting grand
parents have now revealed she intends to try out for Britain's Got Talent as a r
apper . Grandmother Carla Davis-Ball, said she 'could have died' when the little
 girl blurted out 'f***ing hell' after tipping an icy bucket of water over her h
ead . The video captures the moment the little girl stomps off after her icy cha
llenge - exclaiming 'f***ing hell' 'It makes me so happy that a three-year-old p
icked on a good cause and wanted to get involved. She knows it's for poorly peop
le.' Scarlett-Rose has a baby brother called Shankley-Gary, aged ten months. The
 couple care for the children five nights a week and they spend two nights with 
their mother Demi Davis, 19. She adds: 'Scarlett-Rose doesn't really understand 
what the fuss is about which is probably a good thing.'