NEW YORK (CNN) -- Hugh Hefner founded Playboy magazine 55 years ago and turned t
he adult-oriented publication into a multimillion-dollar empire. CNN anchor John
 Roberts recently sat down with Hefner, now 82, and talked about Steven Watts' n
ew book, "Mr. Playboy: Hugh Hefner and the American Dream." Hugh Hefner, 82, say
s that "staying young is what it is all about for me." John Roberts, CNN anchor:
 Mr. Hefner, good to see you. Hugh Hefner: It is my pleasure. Roberts: You have 
over the decades certainly supported political causes, you've supported Democrat
ic causes. I'm wondering what your thoughts are regarding the pending inaugurati
on of Barack Obama and where you think the country is headed in the next four ye
ars. Hefner: Well, where the country is headed is obviously a question we would 
all like to know. But I, certainly, [say] this [is] a time for a change. I suppo
rted Obama. I'm delighted that I lived to see a black president. I think he's a 
very good man. I think we've had ... eight of the worst years in my memory. And 
we hope that Obama can make some difference.  Watch the interview with Hugh Hefn
er » . Roberts: You know in the 1950s and through the '60s and the early '70s y
ou were such a factor in the sexual revolution in this country. With the electio
n of Barack Obama, do you believe that the cultural revolution has come to an en
d? Hefner: It's always ongoing. You know, we remain essentially a puritan people
. And so I think that conflict is always there. One got a remarkable revolutiona
ry change in pop culture and in moral values in the '60s and '70s, and then ther
e was a backlash. And that backlash, I think, has influenced government. And, um
, the Christian right has had, played a major role in all of that. And I think t
hat the complicated problems with religion being involved with politics hopefull
y will come to an end for a while at least. Roberts: Now in 1953, when you first
 launched Playboy magazine, you seemed to be the right publication for the right
 time. I know that you were very heavily influenced by the Kinsey Report, which 
had come out not too long prior to that. But 55 years later, is Playboy magazine
 still relevant? And if it is, how do you keep it relevant? Hefner: Well, I don'
t think obviously it will ever play the same kind of role that it played back in
 the 1950s and '60s. But I do think that a magazine of quality always has a plac
e. Increasingly, obviously fewer people are reading magazines and fewer people a
re reading newspapers and books, but I think that part of that is a change that 
Playboy is always, is also embracing. We're very much involved with the Internet
. We were the first magazine to use [the] Internet and have our own Web site. So
 I think that we'll continue to publish and publish both the magazine and then p
ublish through electronics. Roberts: The new Steven Watts biography is a fascina
ting, very fascinating look at your entire career, from your roots all the way u
p until the present. And he says, looking back over it, that "the key to his app
roach was that he edited Playboy for himself. Aiming it at his own tastes and va
lues." Was that also a key to your success as well that you approached this with
 such a personal passion? Hefner: I think so, but I think that is one of the thi
ngs that makes magazines unique. They do speak with a personal voice. And I thin
k it is one of the things that makes magazines special. Roberts: Now this, of co
urse, has been a family enterprise. You founded the magazine, your daughter Chri
stie took over as CEO of the company in 1982. She has been there for 26 years, b
ut she's stepping down later on this month. Will you be able to still maintain t
hat same - I don't want to say "quality" because I'm sure the quality was there 
-- but can the business continue in the fashion it has for the past 55 years? He
fner: Well, only time will tell. If you're talking in terms of family connection
s, I have two teenage sons. As a matter fact, there was an interview with Marsto
n and Cooper in the current January issue. Roberts: I saw it. Hefner: Marston ha
s just turned 18 and is at Trinity College. Cooper will be graduating in June an
d will be going to USC, and both have an interest in the magazine. Roberts: So y
ou'll be able to continue that legacy into the future? Hefner: That is my hope. 
Roberts: Hugh, in the early part of the 1980s you ran into a number of problems.
 You were attacked on a number of different fronts by Reagan conservatives, the 
feminist movement, business started to suffer. Of course, there was the murder o
f 1980 Playmate of the Year Dorothy Stratten and charges that you had exploited 
her. A recent article in the Baltimore Sun described those times this way. It sa
id: . "Many now viewed Hefner as an anachronism: A creepy old guy padding around
 the mansion in slippers, pajamas and smoking jacket, pathetically cavorting wit
h the same young bimbos and living the dissolute life of an aging Lothario -- th
e sexualized Peter Pan who refused to grow up." How did you overcome all that an
d survive another 25 years in the way that you have? Hefner: Well, I think that'
s probably the great question. One of the big questions is "Why is the brand so 
hugely popular again?" There was a period in the '80s and '90s on which we were 
in the shade, and the brand has become hugely popular again. Part of it because 
of the television show. The television show is a global phenomenon. And what is 
unique about it is the fact that it is more popular with women than with men. Ro
berts: I know. The program you are talking about is girls gone wild ... sorry, "
Girls Next Door." It's heading into its sixth season. And one of the statistics 
I saw is that 78 percent of the viewers are women. How do you think you've tappe
d into that market? Hefner: Well, we certainly didn't anticipate it. The origina
l notion of doing the show through the eyes of the girlfriends seemed inspired b
ecause it took a lot of the pressure off of me. Because I'm a very busy guy. I s
till am very busy involved with the business and with the magazine. So the notio
n of doing a reality show through the eyes of the girls was a good idea because 
it took the pressure off the old man. What we didn't anticipate, of course, was 
as a result ... it is a hugely popular phenomenon with women and that, of course
, is really welcome. Because we knew that we were going to have the guys so the 
fact that the magazine and the brand is now hot with young women bodes well for 
the future. Roberts: Of course, the three principals in "Girls Next Door" are Ho
lly, Bridget and Kendra, and we know that there has been a bit of a change in th
e relationship between you and Holly, at the very least. Will they be back again
 next year for the next season? Hefner: Yes, all three of the girls are schedule
d for season six. It will be a season of transitions and we will be meeting some
 of the new girls, too. Roberts: You're 82 years old now? Your latest girlfriend
s are a pair of 19-year-old twins, Karissa and Kristina Shannon. You are 63 year
s older than they are. A lot of people would say, "How do you do it?" And other 
people might say, "Are you ever going to grow up?" Hefner: Well, I'm never going
 to grow up. Staying young is what it is all about for me. Holding on to the boy
 and, um, long ago I decided that age really didn't matter and as long as the la
dies ... feel the same way, that's fine with me. Roberts: Well, you're definitel
y the youngest 82-year-old I've ever seen. Hugh Hefner, thanks for being with us
 today. Hefner: My pleasure always. Roberts: Take care. Hefner: Thank you.