(CNN) -- Nanci Griffith wanted to look on the bright side. Nanci Griffith, who s
ays she's "fed up with negativity," was revitalized by the election of Barack Ob
ama. And who could blame her? In the past decade, Griffith -- perhaps best known
 for her Grammy-winning 1993 album, "Other Voices, Other Rooms" -- had faced a p
olitical climate she didn't agree with, as well as recovery from thyroid and bre
ast cancer, which she was diagnosed with in the late '90s. Songwriting had becom
e a struggle for the singer with the gentle, crystalline voice. "It was ... horr
ific," she said simply. However, with her latest album, "The Loving Kind" (Round
er), Griffith is as focused and passionate as she has been in years. Sparked by 
the changes in her life and American politics, she said, music has been vital to
 her personal resurgence. "It was nice to focus on things outside of my body. Mu
sic has always done that for me," she said. Describing herself as someone who wa
s "fed up with negativity," Griffith was equally inspired by her fellow countrym
en. "[The] American people will not let this country collapse," she said. The id
ea motivated her to look at her country's dark path of injustice not so long ago
, stories that worked their way into her songwriting. "In some ways, I'm just a 
journalist. I [want] my audience to hear these stories," she said. CNN spoke wit
h Griffith from her home in Nashville, Tennessee. CNN: Being a folk singer and y
our views being what they are, was it tougher or maybe easier to write songs fro
m 2000 to 2008? Nanci Griffith: It was very difficult for me. I was hurt by the 
direction my country was going in. And then, after [the 2008 election], everythi
ng came spilling out. Things came along like the Mildred and Richard Loving case
 ("The Loving Kind"), where Mildred died, and I read her obituary. [The Lovings 
were a couple whose interracial marriage was against the law in Virginia at the 
time.] That was such an inspiration. ... Just wondering why I never knew about t
his and how important that case is currently with equality in marriage. Little t
hings. Bit by bit, my heart started to open up again, and I could write! CNN: Ha
d you ever gone through that before? Griffith: No, never in my life. I've always
 been a very prolific writer. CNN: Now, what about writing in the age of Obama? 
Griffith: (laughs) It feels great! People may be down on their luck, financially
. But I see so much optimism about the direction of the country and [general] op
enness. CNN: Now, in addition to "The Loving Kind," there are other songs based 
on actual events on this record. Tell me about "Not Innocent Enough." Griffith: 
That's based on Philip Workman's case in Memphis [Tennessee]. He was robbing a W
endy's -- was a heroin addict -- and police came in, and an officer was killed. 
Now, Workman didn't kill him; it was friendly fire. Workman was convicted anyway
 and executed. I'm a total abolitionist when it comes to the death penalty, but 
this case really stunned me, because I feel like this country has evolved enough
 to where we shouldn't have to live with the death penalty. CNN: Is it hard as a
 writer/musician to inhabit those songs, knowing that they are actual events? Gr
iffith: Not really. I feel like, in some ways, I'm just a journalist. I don't ex
press my opinion [in the songs], necessarily. But it's important to me that my a
udience hear these stories. I want as many people to know about Loving v. Virgin
ia as possible. CNN: Do you feel like it's a more palatable way to become aware 
of a story like that when a song is attached to it? Griffith: I do. I've been in
formed many times through music. Pete Seeger, Odetta, Dave Van Ronk, Bruce Sprin
gsteen ... so many folk songwriters. It's all around you. CNN: The song "Still L
ife" -- I suspect that's about President George W. Bush? Griffith: It's about pe
ople like him. This country is full of them, and especially my home state of Tex
as. It's a [perspective on] people who go through life getting away with everyth
ing. CNN: Do you feel a sense of vindication with President Obama's election, or
 at least a sense that things are moving in a direction you're in favor of? Grif
fith: I hope so. Right now, he is my hero. So is his wife. CNN: What in your pas
t steered you into a topical songwriter? Griffith: I was always more interested 
in story songs, things with a point of view ... and things that informed me. CNN
: Is there a different process of writing those topical songs versus a song like
 "Up Against the Rain," which is clearly more personal? Griffith: There is a bur
den to writing [those topical songs]: You better have your facts straight. When 
you're writing a personal song like "Rain," it's straight from your heart and se
ems to just flow. CNN: "Sing" seems like it would fit that description. Does tha
t song sum up your life in a way? Griffith: Many have asked that, but I was actu
ally inspired to write that by watching an interview with Shania Twain where she
 said it would not have mattered if she remained a lounge act for her whole care
er. It's not something you choose. It's just what you do.