By . Anna Edwards . PUBLISHED: . 08:16 EST, 13 February 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 14
:20 EST, 13 February 2013 . The discovery of a vital ingredient for fertiliser u
nder the North York Moors has prompted a 'gold rush' as people race to invest in
 a company that plans to mine it. A massive deposit of polyhalite – a mineral 
which contains potash, essential for fertiliser - has sparked thousands of peopl
e snapping up shares in the Sirius Minerals, which plans to mine the reserve. In
 January the firm applied for planning permission to construct the pithead in th
e North York Moors National Park, a conservation area. The potash mine has promi
sed new jobs, but some locals fear the development will destroy the tranquility 
of the park . The firm maintains it is the only place it could be done, and woul
d not be intrusive as barely any of the machinery will be seen, according to the
 Financial Times. They say the shaft will be underground, and have chosen an are
a ion high ground with a forest plantation to shield it and not ruin the view. T
he £1.1bn project is expected to create 1,000 jobs and there are 4,225 sharehol
ders in Yorkshire and Teesside - which together own nine per cent of Sirius, acc
ording to the newspaper. Since December thousands of shares have been bought by 
people eager to cash in on the mucky mine of th emineral. The North York Moors, 
near Whitby, has a rich reserve of potash - an essential mineral for fertiliser 
. The park's local HSBC bank has had customers regularly coming in to purchase s
hares in the Aim-listed company, such is the eagerness to profit from the discov
ery. The project includes a 27-mile (43km) underground pipeline to transport the
 potash ore from North Yorkshire to Teesside. The company said the pipeline was 
the most environmentally acceptable solution for moving the ore, as it will sign
ificantly cut the amount of traffic transporting the deposit. The name stems fro
m 'pot ash', the process used before the industrial revolution of soaking plant 
ashes in a pot to draw out potassium carbonate, that was left in a white ash. Po
tash is the common term for fertiliser forms of the element potassium (K). The m
ineral is the 7th most common element in the earth's crust and is an essential i
ngredient for fertiliser. Chris Fraser, managing director and chief executive of
 Sirius Minerals, said the project would create 'significant new jobs' and impro
ve local skills 'for generations to come'. But some neighbours are dismayed at t
he plans, saying the mine will destroy the tranquility of the beautiful area, th
e BBC reported. The moors are renowned for their stunning, peaceful character, a
nd tourism jobs are vital for the area's economy. The National Park Authority pl
ans to hold public meetings as part of a consultation process, and a decision on
 the proposal is expected in May. The authority said it would assess the potenti
al economic benefits and the environmental impacts of the mine before reaching a
ny decision.