(CNN) -- A deathbed photo of Gary Coleman appeared Wednesday on the cover of Glo
be Magazine, showing the actor's ex-wife staring into the camera next to the for
mer child actor. The man named executor in Coleman's will accused Shannon Price 
of profiting from her ex-husband's death by selling the image to the tabloid, an
d suggested she is destined for the "life of a social and professional outcast."
 Coleman divorced Price in 2008, but they were living together in Santaquin, Uta
h, when he suffered a fall at home last month and died two days later of a brain
 hemorrhage in a Provo, Utah, hospital. Globe parent company American Media conf
irmed it bought the photo, but spokeswoman Samantha Trenk would not disclose how
 much was paid or who sold the image. A Utah judge appointed Dion Mial, Coleman'
s longtime friend and former manager, as special administrator of the estate whi
le the will goes through the probate process. A will signed in 1999 named Mial a
s executor. Mial threatened to have Price, 24, arrested unless she returned prop
erty he said had been taken from Coleman's home since his death. She must also s
tay away from the Santaquin home where they lived together, Mial said. While Col
eman was not believed wealthy when he died, his personal possessions may be valu
able to collectors. "These items include, but are not limited to, numerous telev
isions and video game systems, a black 2005 Dodge pick-up truck (registered to C
oleman), cargo trailer (registered to Coleman), model train sets, computers, tel
ephones, musical instruments, and furnishings," Mial said. "It is our hope that 
Miss Price should immediately and respectfully comply with the court's order, so
 as to avoid the filing of criminal charges against her," Mial said. Mial was un
able to stop the Globe from publishing the death images, which he accused Price 
of peddling to tabloids in an "ongoing desperate attempt" to profit from his dea
th. "These actions simply illuminate and magnify the truth that our gift of free
 will may, ultimately, relegate us to a long life of bondage and imprisonment th
at the life of a social and professional outcast, indeed, will bring," Mial said
 Wednesday. "May God bless Miss Price and her 'free will.'" A statement released
 by Price's publicist Monday did not deny Mial's accusation, but did say she nee
ded money because she had helped Mial pay for a lawyer. "Dion, who claims to be 
a good friend of Gary, would know that Gary's only wishes were to make sure that
 Shannon would be OK after he was gone," the statement said. "So if Dion was a g
ood friend he would be assisting Shannon, not taking all her money, to pay for h
is attorney and then use it to take everything from her."