(CNN) -- A jihadist website is urging its American followers to kill comedian Da
vid Letterman, saying his tongue deserves to be cut over his remarks about a ter
ror leader, an online intelligence group said. The writer posted the death threa
t after he got upset by a Letterman joke about an al Qaeda leader killed in Paki
stan, according to SITE intelligence group, which monitors and translates online
 terror activity. Ilyas Kashmiri, described as al Qaeda's "military brain," died
 in a drone strike in June, his jihadist group said at the time. Letterman crack
ed jokes about the killing, and dragged his finger across his neck to show "the 
way of the slaughter,"  the message on the jihadist site said. He then said Kash
miri joins terror leader Osama bin Laden, who was killed in Pakistan in May, acc
ording to the message posted Wednesday. "This despicable person mocked the leade
rs of the mujahideen," the post says. The death threat urges jihadist followers 
to cut off Letterman's tongue and "shut it forever." CNN could not independently
 confirm the message. A spokesman for the FBI said the agency is looking into th
e death threats. "In the post 9/11 world, we take all of these threats seriously
," spokesman Peter Donald said. A federal law enforcement official said such thr
eats are common. "We see these kinds of threats frequently against people in bus
iness and media. Usually nothing comes of them, but we check them all out," the 
official said. CBS's publicity department for "Late Show With David Letterman" d
eclined to comment Thursday on the issue. But on the show's official Facebook pa
ge, the comedian's fans rallied to his defense. "Keep doing what you do Dave," w
rote Ronnie W., one of Letterman's supporters. "Dont let Al Quaeda influence you
r comedy, but Inspire it .... we got your back." Steve Grand, director of the Br
ookings Institution's U.S. Relations with the Islamic World project, said that j
ihadists closely track U.S. culture -- as seen in seized videos showing the late
 Osama bin Laden watching western news programs. He said there's a sense U.S.-bo
rn cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, a prominent member in al Qaeda, may be looking to "fi
nd ways of entering the American discourse." "There's an obsession with the Unit
ed States and the West, more generally," said Grand. "And there is a desire to d
efend their cause through violence." The internet serves as a motivational resou
rce for jihadists used "to inspire offshoots and to encourage like-minded people
," the Brookings' fellow added. As such, a specific threat -- like the one targe
ting Letterman -- could be viewed as encouraging others to act. Yet Grand, like 
the federal law enforcement official, notes that dozens of such threats are made
 monthly. What may be more significant is how the American public reacts. "(U.S.
 citizens) have gotten use to this kind of talk, and there's sort of a resilienc
e," he said. "What is most invaluable in the United States is that the best tool
 against terrorism is resilience, ... to not be cowed by threats and get back to
 your lives." CNN's Carol Cratty, Karen Bonsignore and Greg Botelho contributed 
to this report.