Washington (CNN) -- President Barack Obama got a second term from voters and ano
ther chance with Chief Justice John Roberts. After flubbing the oath in 2009, Ob
ama and the Supreme Court's top jurist performed the honor flawlessly at the Whi
te House on Sunday at the official swearing in for the Democrat's second term. T
hey will do it again on Monday at the Capitol before a crowd of up to 800,000 pe
ople. The Constitution mandates that U.S. presidents be sworn in on January 20. 
Because that fell on a Sunday this year, the public ceremony was scheduled for M
onday at noon. Inauguration 2013: A viewer's guide . The dual events this time w
ere due to a confluence of law and pomp. That was not the case four years ago wh
en Obama and Roberts also performed the honor twice. During that inaugural, Obam
a and Roberts fumbled the oath before 1.8 million people. It all started when Ro
berts recited a seven-word phrase, but Obama broke in halfway through and repeat
ed the first three words. That seemed to throw Roberts off, and he proceeded to 
mix up the order of the words in the next phrase. CNN Senior Legal Analyst Jeffr
ey Toobin reported in his recent book, "The Oath," that Roberts is known for his
 "superb memory" and had obsessively practiced reciting the words at home for we
eks. Government sources told CNN and Toobin that Roberts and his staff also e-ma
iled their own copy of the oath to inauguration organizers weeks earlier. 13 rea
sons to follow the inauguration on CNN's platforms and nowhere else . Slash mark
s were clearly indicated to illustrate how the phrases would be divided and wher
e Roberts would pause, to ensure the president-elect would be on the same page. 
No one is sure why it happened, but "the oath card never reached anyone on Barac
k Obama's staff," Toobin wrote. They were concerned enough about the small stumb
le in the sequencing of words on the inaugural platform that Obama and Roberts w
ent through it again the next day in private in the White House Map Room - just 
to make sure they were square with the Constitution. Back at the White House fou
r years later, it all went off without a glitch just before noon on Sunday. With
 Roberts waiting in the Blue Room, Obama strode in before a small gathering. He 
placed his left hand on a Bible belonging to his wife's family and raised his ri
ght hand. Roberts had the card with him and the slash marks identifying where he
 would pause were clearly visible. It all took less than a minute to get through
 the 35-word oath. Obama hugged his wife and daughters, exclaiming: "I did it!" 
Complete coverage: The 2013 Presidential Inauguration .