ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN)  -- Every year, I take at least one vacation out of the c
ountry to get my international travel fix. And this time, I'm taking you with me
. The travel bug is a forever-itch that leaves you longing to wake up in a forei
gn country, Jarrett Bellini says. No, not literally. Sit down. This year, YOU ca
n weigh in on where I go and what I do once I get there. We're calling it: Let's
 Ruin Jarrett's Vacation! By adding your comments below or sharing your ideas on
 CNN.com Live's Facebook page, you can send me to either Argentina, Greece, Sout
h Africa or Turkey. The destination that gets the most positive response is wher
e I'll go. And to make it more fun, I won't even find out where I'm heading unti
l I actually get to the airport this Sunday, August 30. There, I will tear open 
an envelope, read the results for the first time, and then head to my departure 
gate -- hopefully with at least a few articles of appropriate clothing. Once I g
et to wherever it is you send me, I'll be blogging on CNN.com and and checking i
n from time to time on CNN.com Live. By sharing your ideas on Facebook, you'll b
e able to guide many aspects of this vacation. You call the shots. And I'll cry 
myself to sleep at night wondering why I agreed to work on vacation and let othe
r people plan it. I suppose, now, you might want a little background on why I'd 
actually want to do this. I mean, besides the fact that clearly, I'm a glutton f
or punishment. Really, though, I think I just like a challenge. In the fall of 2
003, after an entire month of fruitlessly waiting by my phone to hear back about
 an entry-level position with CNN, I finally gave up hope and took my apparent j
ob snub as some sort of cosmic sign from the Slacker Gods. I decided, then, that
 the only reasonable course of action was to buy a plane ticket to Europe to spe
nd the next three months running around with my backpack, trying -- again, quite
 fruitlessly -- to meet foreign chicks. Though not quite a rucksack Casanova, I 
did come back from these magical three months with a far greater ability to ente
rtain myself in a completely new place among absolute strangers. (Granted, for m
e, this can be accomplished by the presence of shiny objects.) Amazingly, the da
y after I returned from Europe, CNN called and offered me the position. It took 
four long months, but the timing was remarkable and I couldn't have been happier
. But, as I started my new professional life, I was sick. I had the travel bug. 
Now, this is not to be confused with bed bugs, which, FYI, I painfully fell vict
im to in Copenhagen at a horrible, bomb-shelter-of-a-hostel they call Sleep in H
eaven. Apparently, Heaven smells like mildew and leaves you with a rash. No, thi
s was the travel bug -- the forever-itch that leaves you longing to wake up in a
 foreign bed in a foreign country, rising to face new ideas and new people benea
th an unfamiliar sky. Of course, that's just my poorly poetic way of saying: The
 world is huge and amazing. It's so good! Once it hits your lips, it's so good!