The Australian Federal Police is investigating reports of a Brisbane girl being 
taken from her home to undergo genital mutilation in Africa. It is believed the 
girl is between the ages of four and seven and is travelling with her father, Th
e Guardian Australia reported. The child was born in Sierra Leone but was taken
 to Gambia to have the procedure before Christmas. Scroll down for video . It is
 believed the girl is between the ages of four and seven and is travelling with 
her father to Gambia for female genital mutilation . An AFP spokeswoman confirme
d to Daily Mail Australia they were investigating the allegations. 'AFP has rece
ived a referral in relation to FGM and as we are currently conducting enquiries,
 no more comment can be offered at this point in time,' she said. But there are 
fears police intervention is too late, with west African community members in Br
isbane telling The Guardian Australia the girl may have already had the procedur
e. Female genital mutilation is illegal in Australia, as is removing children to
 undergo the procedure. An example of knife and blades used for FGM, which is il
legal in Australia, but three girls a day are at risk of it . Three girls a day 
are at risk of female genital mutilation (FGM) in Australia. There are four type
s of FGM including clitoridectomy, excision, infibulation and other. No FGM dire
ctor Paula Ferrari told Daily Mail Australia more needed to be done to educate p
eople about the dangers of the procedure. Source: World Health Organisation . Sh
e said the girls who were most at risk of FGM were those who came from a communi
ty where the practice is accepted, or had a mother or sibling who had experience
d it. In the case of the Brisbane girl, Ms Ferrari said the child had this histo
ry. 'The question could be asked if this could have been prevented because she h
ad ticked two of these boxes,' she said. Foreign Affairs Minister Julie Bishop h
as urged relatives or friends to blow the whistle on anyone taking children abro
ad to undergo female genital mutilation. But it is virtually impossible for auth
orities to step in without evidence of somebody's intentions, Ms Bishop told Fai
rfax Radio on Tuesday. 'If somebody just presents with a passport and they're he
ading off overseas and we have no evidence to provide us with any cause to preve
nt the person leaving, then of course that happens,' she said. 'People are free 
to travel on an Australian passport if they have a valid passport.' Ms Bishop sa
id it was vital family members or friends who were in the know about such plans 
let authorities know. 'This equally applies to foreign terrorist fighters,' she 
said. 'It's the families that we need to hear from if there are such matters occ
urring.' Relatives were the ones most likely to notice changes in behaviour or t
he beginning of radicalisation, Ms Bishop said. '[Whether it's] a girl leaving f
or overseas for this brutal, barbaric practice, or whether it's people leaving f
or overseas to take up with terrorist organisations.'