Jellyfish, a common summertime nuisance, may be more dangerous than once thought
. The sea creatures have been around for half a billion years - and new informat
ion alleges that they are growing in numbers, killing people and wreaking havoc 
in the oceans. Lisa-ann Gershwin's book 'Stung! On Jellyfish and the Future of t
he Oceans,' describes the danger jellyfish pose and how they have overrun variou
s ecosystems. Much of the species' success, she says is based on their life cycl
e. 'Hermaphroditism. Cloning. External fertilization. Self fertilization. Courts
hip and copulation. Fission. Fusion. Cannibalism. You name it, jellyfish [are] "
doing it,"' she says. Jellyfish, like the ones seen in this file photo, are grow
ing in numbers, even as other species die and are wiped out . One jellyfish, the
 Mnemiopsis, is able to lay eggs when it is just 13 days old without needing a m
ate. It soon is able to lay 10,000 eggs per day. It also can eat over ten times 
its own body weight in food and can double in size each day. Other jellyfish are
 extremely difficult to kill. When faced with death, some can 'de-grow' - which 
means that 'they reduce in size, but their bodies remain in proportion,' the New
 York Review of Books says. Another species, the zombie jelly, is seemingly immo
rtal. When its particles disintegrate, cells escape and form an entirely new jel
ly. This period of growth happens within five days. Jellyfish have been strength
ening their numbers and now appear at beaches all over the world, like in this f
ile photo . Complex ecosystems, Gershwin says, at what have kept the jellyfish a
t bay. However, she claims that human involvement and manipulation have catapult
ed their growth and helped their numbers to explode. Gershwin claims that overfi
shing anchovies, which compete with jellyfish for food, have created swarms of t
he sea creatures in South Africa. Jellyfish competitors quickly die out, leaving
 a 'stingy-slimy killing field,' she says. Plastic bags and drift lines may also
 destroy the few natural jellyfish predators, like sea turtles. Jellyfish also u
se hard litter, like industrial waste, to form expansive nurseries. Rising acid 
and carbon dioxide levels have been noted to kill off many fish species. Jellyfi
sh, however, reportedly thrive in these harsh environments. They release waste w
ith high carbon levels -- which bacteria use to create 'carbon dioxide factories
,' Gershwin says. One example is the Gulf of Mexico -- in 2000, jellyfish took o
ver an area of sixty square miles. They survived the damage wrought by Hurricane
 Katrina and the 2011 oil spill, when thousands of other species died. Jellyfish
 have thrived in the harsh Gulf of Mexico, as seen in this undated file photo, w
hile thousands of other species have died . These combined factors, she says, ar
e what have allowed jellyfish to take over 'one bite at a time.''[There will be]
 no coral reefs teeming with life. No more mighty whales or wobbling penguins. N
o lobsters or oysters,' Gershwin says. Jellyfish, like both the box jelly and Ir
ukandji species, have taken dozens of lives. Box jellies can kill within two min
utes, the New York Review of Books reports. Irukandji, which can cause extreme c
ramps, spasms, and vomiting, have taken countless victims. Many deaths are misdi
agnosed as strokes and heart attacks. In groups, jellyfish 'have an uncanny knac
k for getting stuck,' Gershwin writes. They can get sucked in and latch on to he
avy structures. In July 2006, jellyfish were sucked into the US Ronald Reagan, w
iping out onboard capabilities. Japanese power plants have been 'under attack' f
rom jellyfish since the 1960s, claims the New York Review of Books. The damage m
ay be permanent, Gershwin says. 'I think I underestimated how severely we have d
amaged our oceans and their inhabitants. I now think that we have pushed them to
o far [...] without us knowing the precise moment it all became irreversible.' J
ellyfish, like the Japanese Sea Nettles seen in this file photo, beat their comp
etitors for food and thrive in carbon-heavy environments .