By . Louise Boyle . PUBLISHED: . 07:24 EST, 20 June 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 15:24 
EST, 20 June 2013 . New Jersey locals mourned the loss of actor James Gandolfini
 on Wednesday as the fictional hang-outs of his beloved character Tony Soprano w
ere flooded with visitors paying their respects. Fans flocked to the New Jersey 
ice cream parlor where the final Sopranos scene was filmed to pay tribute to Gan
dolfini, described as 'a regular Jersey guy' and 'a member of the family'. The o
wner of Holsten's ice cream parlor, in Bloomfield, placed a 'Reserved' sign at t
he booth where Tony Soprano enjoys a bowl of onion rings with his family before 
the screen cuts to black. Fans swarmed to the diner when the news of Gandolfini'
s death broke on Wednesday night. Holsten's co-owner Chris Carley called Gandolf
ini 'a very kind gentleman and a larger-than-life character'. Scroll down for vi
deo . Sad goodbye: Satin Dolls strip club in New Jersey, which doubled as the Ba
da Bing Club in cult show The Sopranos, said the death of James Gandolfini was '
losing a member of the family' Saved for a special friend: A newspaper and bouqu
et of flowers adorn a booth in Holsten's Ice Cream Shop, the location where the 
final scene of The Sopranos was filmed in Bloomfield, New Jersey . So long, boss
: A makeshift memorial to actor James Gandolfini is displayed at Satin Dolls, th
e gentleman's club known as the Bada Bing Club in the show . Honored: Holsten's 
Ice Cream Parlor said that Gandolfini had been a 'true gentleman' and 'larger-th
an-life character' who made time for everyone . Mr Carley told MailOnline:'He wa
s a great actor and he portrayed the character of Tony Soprano to a tee. 'When h
e was not on camera, he was very generous and giving, always doing pictures and 
autographs.' He said that people started coming into the store around 7pm when w
ord of Gandolfini's sudden death got around. He . said that his business has gre
atly benefited from being attached to the . cult of the Sopranos. He said a lot 
of fans ask him what really . happened when the screen cuts to black, adding: 'L
ike I know!' Mr . Carley said that Holsten's would be keeping the Reserved sign 
on Tony . Soprano's table 'for a while' out of respect for the late Gandolfini. 
Tribute: A reserved sign sits on the booth where the last show of the HBO series
 'The Sopranos' was filmed at Holsten's ice cream parlor in Bloomfield, New Jers
ey, in honor of James Gandolfini . Busy: 'Holsten's packed after news James Gand
olfini died,' News 12 reporter John Klekamp wrote . Popular: The owners of Holst
en's said fans of the show came along to the restaurant to see the booth . The 5
1-year-old actor died after a suspected heart attack in Rome on Wednesday. The .
 Sopranos star had been holidaying with his son Michael, wife Deborah . and nine
-month-old daughter Liliana ahead of the 59th Taormina Film . Festival in Sicily
. Gandolfini suffered a heart attack in . his hotel after a day out in Rome with
 his family, and died in hospital . when doctors were unable to resuscitate him.
 Jersey boy: Tony Soprano was a regular at the fictional Bada Bing Club, the rea
l-life Satin Dolls in New Jersey . In mourning: The owner of Satin Dolls strip c
lub, which doubles as the Bada Bing club in The Sopranos, said he was numb at th
e news of Gandolfini's death . His co-star Joseph Gannascoli, who plays Vito Spa
tafore in the show, told MailOnline that Gandolfini was a 'tremendous person'. A
n emotional Gannascoli said: 'He came to my wedding with his son and spoke beaut
iful words in front of everyone to me and my wife.' He said that the greatest tr
agedy was that Gandolfini's son and daughter would grow up without their father.
 The actor said that Gandolfini was a generous guy with no airs about him who ma
de everyone feel comfortable. Grief: Joseph Gannascoli (seated center) pictured 
with co-stars James Gandolfini and Michael Imperioli. Gannascoli, who played Vit
o Spatafore in The Sopranos, called the late Gandolfini a 'tremendous person' He
 told of a time that Gandolfini had been scheduled to make an appearance at his 
Brooklyn restaurant and despite being ill and it pouring with rain, he took pict
ures with everyone in a line of people who had queued around the block. The mana
ger of Satin Dolls strip . club, another favorite hang-out of Tony Soprano which
 features in the . show as Bada Bing Club, said he was numb at the death of Gand
olfini, who . he called a 'member of the family'. Bill Peppe told MailOnline: 'H
e was very accessible, he always took time for fans.' Scene: James Gandolfini, a
s Tony Soprano, Edie Falco and Robert Iler sit in the booth in the final episode
 . Fans: People walk out of Holsten's ice cream parlor on Wednesday evening, aft
er news of the actor's death . Missed: Chris Carley, owner of Holsten's ice crea
m parlor, called Gandolfini 'just a really nice guy' He said that he found out t
he news of Gandolfini's death last night around 6pm and his phone had been ringi
ng non-stop ever since and that many people had come to the club. He added: 'Peo
ple are doing the right thing and coming out to pay their respects. 'He was just
 a regular Jersey guy, like the governor said.' The owner said that Satin Dolls 
was planning a tribute to the star. New Jersey governor Chris Christie added tha
t the actor’s death was an 'awful shock'. 'James . Gandolfini was a fine actor
, a Rutgers alum and a true Jersey guy,' he . said. 'I was a huge fan of his and
 the character he played so . authentically, Tony Soprano.' On Location, which r
uns a bus tour around The Sopranos' famous locations, said that they had seen a 
spike in sales on Wednesday night following the sad news of Gandolfini's death. 
Marc Baron, who played several small roles across 13 episodes in The Sopranos, a
nd is also a tour guide, told MailOnline that Gandolfini looked out for everyone
 on the show and treated the extras, crew and cast all as equals. Success: Falco
 and Gandolfini are pictured with their Emmy Awards for the show in 2003 . Tribu
te: A picture of Gandolfini is displayed in the window of a restaurant in Little
 Italy, New York . The Sopranos Bar in New York City's Little Italy placed Gando
lfini's pictures in its windows. Residents . in his hometown of Westwood, where 
he was born to a high school . custodian and a lunch lady in 1961, also paid tri
bute to the Emmy winner . as a 'regular guy'. 'I'm devastated,' Ridge Diner mana
ger Peter Fatouros said. 'Even though he was a big celebrity, he still came arou
nd to his old neighborhood.'