The tech firms are investing in rival efforts to beam the internet down to the g
round from flying objects in the stratosphere - twice as high as aeroplanes norm
ally fly.
Facebook aims to build a network of laser-beaming drones that will tightly circl
e known black-spots.
Google also has a drone project about which it's tight-lipped.
But the company is more open about an attempt to send "strings" of giant balloon
s circumnavigating the globe to provide persistent data links to the parts of th
e planet they pass.
The schemes may both seem far-fetched.
But the brains behind both companies' efforts told the BBC they are convinced th
ey have a real shot at connecting the 57% of the world's population still offlin
e.
Of the two projects, Facebook's plan is arguably at an earlier stage.
"It has not flown yet, that's the next milestone," the social network's engineer
ing chief Jay Parikh acknowledges.
But he says he hopes the first drone will be airborne before the year's end.
"Don't tell Mark I said that," he hurriedly adds, referring to Facebook's chief 
executive.
"I'm trying to manage Mark's expectations."
The aircraft is called Aquila 1 and was recently built in Somerset, England befo
re being shipped to a secret test site.
The drone is wider than a Boeing 737 jet but looks quite different, since there'
s no need to carry passengers or a pilot.
The sleek giant structure is made of a thin layer of foam covered in carbon fibr
e, with four propellers attached.
"The whole structure is 142ft (43m) wide but weighs less than a Toyota Prius," M
r Parikh explains.
"The structure and stiffness of the plane is all in the carbon fibre of the wing
 and that supports everything, the [internet-providing] payload, the batteries, 
and the solar panels on top."
The aim is to build a fleet of the drones with radio transmitters fitted underne
ath to beam  data across a 100 mile (160km) diameter zone below.
Terminals on the ground would use the signals to provide the internet to people'
s computers.
Facebook wants the drones to stay aloft for three months at a time.
That alone would be an impressive feat - the current record is about a fortnight
.
But the really tricky bit involves creating a sky-high network with several dron
es acting as intermediary connection points, so that a fast connection sent from
 a city can be distributed outwards to the final aircraft in the chain as far as
 300km (186 miles) away.
To help keep data speeds high, Facebook aims to beam lasers between the aircraft
 across significant distances.
"The analogy that we have come up with is this: If I took a US dime [18mm in dia
meter] and I walked 11 miles away from you, and then you had a laser in your han
d, you would have to hit that dime," says Mr Parikh.
"And by the way, these are not stationary targets - these are moving.
"So, we have to do this and keep this pointed and connected while the one point 
and the other point are moving.
"It's pretty freaking hard."
The firm has already trialled the tech in its California labs, but making it wor
k 27km above ground will not be easy.
Project Loon's balloons have been taking to the skies since June 2013.
"We've flown almost 1,000 balloons at this point," Mike Cassidy, vice-president 
of Project Loon, tells the BBC.
"We've flown almost 20 million kilometres around the world.
"One of our balloons went around the world 19 times."
The balloons travel with the winds, usually along an easterly or westerly latitu
de.
Google keeps each one on course by pumping helium in and out of a bag fastened i
nside the balloon's outer plastic envelope. This causes it to rise or fall, lett
ing it find winds that will take it in the desired direction.
Rather than try to keep each balloon over one spot, Google's goal is to create a
 circular sequence. So, as one goes out of range of antennas on the ground, anot
her takes its place, providing a continuous internet connection.
Initially, the firm struggled to keep its balloons aloft for much more than a we
ek. But it now regularly keeps them aloft for 150 days.
"Even a millimetre-sized hole in a balloon will bring it down in a few days," ex
plains Mr Cassidy.
"So, you need to study every phase of the process from manufacturing to packagin
g to shipping to launch.
"We just slowly found the holes by failure analysis."
Rather than use lasers, Google relies solely on radio frequencies to transmit it
s data.
Equipment hanging below each aircraft connects to a base station in range below 
and then sends out the resulting data link to other antennas it can reach, which
 in turn link up to people's individual computing devices.
At present, Loon balloons can cover a circular area spanning 80km (50 miles) in 
diameter.
The balloons can also transmit signals to each other to extend the internet when
 there is no base station nearby.
The firm says it has already linked up two balloons more than 100km apart and tr
ansferred data at about 500 megabits per second.
But that's a fraction of the tens or even hundreds of gigabits per second rates 
Facebook believes its lasers are capable of.
"Radio technology is generally a more developed technology than freespace optica
l communication," Google's Mr Cassidy said, explaining his approach.
"It's been around longer, the components are typically less expensive.
"But we'll definitely look at all technologies that provide good performance."
As both schemes advance and more equipment takes to the skies, the risk of an ac
cident increases.
Even if Aquila weighs less than a car you still wouldn't want one hurtling towar
ds you or a passenger jet at speed.
Mr Parikh, however, is quick to stress there is no imminent risk.
"This thing is not yet certified to fly over people's heads," he says.
"We will have to do thousands or tens of thousands of fight hours, induce failur
es, see how these things manage the stress, the [cold] temperature, all of that.
"
But Google's balloons are already active.
Indeed, the firm hopes to start providing connections to early adopters in Indon
esia and Sri Lanka soon.
"We put transponders on all our balloons, which is not required," says Mr Cassid
y, "so, just like an aeroplane, air traffic control can always see where the bal
loons are."
But he acknowledges, things do not always go according to plan.
"We have had some balloons come down at a time earlier than we expected," he dis
closes.
"But in all those cases we did steer them to an area that was safer to land [and
] contact air traffic control to co-ordinate the descent."
Assuming life-threatening collisions can be avoided, one expert agreed both proj
ects had  potential, not least because they should prove much cheaper than sendi
ng up more satellites or other existing alternatives.
"They are talking about co-operating with existing communications service provid
ers, which convinces me they won't be Wild West kinds of projects," says William
 Hahn from the tech consultancy Gartner.
"We are seeing more options in a number of different areas as well: we have lowe
r Earth-orbit satellites than we used to have and the cost of optical fibre is c
oming down.
"But there are still some very large populations that are hard to reach and hard
 to serve, and at least in the mid-term I think these new schemes could be part 
of the solution."
That just leaves the problem - how do you work out where best to deploy all this
 gear?
No-one is suggesting the drones or balloons could provide blanket access.
But at present, even the best internet coverage maps break down when you zoom in
 close enough.
Facebook believes its artificial intelligence division could have the solution.
"The team has just developed deep expertise at image recognition," reveals Faceb
ook's Mr Parikh.
"We've adapted that technology to be able to take in high-resolution satellite i
magery and then be able to process it understanding what human dwellings look li
ke.
"So, here's a building, here's a home, here's a teepee, here's a train, here's a
 car - whatever it is, we are now able to come up with a way of better understan
ding where these people are."
The social network has not made its data public yet.
And like much else involved with the two connectivity projects, a lot has to be 
taken on trust at this point.
But both Google and Facebook have a big financial incentive to get more people o
nline and a willingness to keep spending until they achieve it.
"Our philosophy is to do lots and lots of testing," concludes Google's Mr Cassid
y.
"If your choice is to sit around for a year or two planning and design and then 
do one big test, then the test may or may not work.
"We like rapidly iterating, and I think from an engineering perspective that's t
he fastest way to get to a working system."
Mr Parikh will provide more details about Facebook's drone at a meeting later th
is Wednesday, and will feature on Friday's edition of Tech Tent on BBC World Ser
vice