By . Sarah Griffiths . His body was buried 600 years ago without any pomp and ce
remony befitting of a king. But now the traditional funeral crown that Richard I
II never had, has gone on display in York. The golden headpiece was commissioned
 for the last king of the House of York by a leading historian who was involved 
in the archaeological dig that discovered Richard III’s remains beneath a car 
park in Leicester. Richard III's funeral crown (pictured) was commissioned by a 
leading historian who was involved in the archaeological dig that discovered Ric
hard III¿s remains beneath a car park in Leicester . Richard III was killed at 
the Battle of Bosworth in 1485, ending the Wars of the Roses and the Plantagenet
 dynasty. His body was taken to Leicester by supporters of victorious Henry VII 
and buried in Greyfriars church, which is now the site of the council car park. 
Dr John Ashdown-Hill commissioned a 15th century-style gold-plated crown in trib
ute to the late king with white roses and gems. Richard was killed at the Battle
 of Bosworth in 1485 and was buried without pomp and ceremony . The crown was ma
de by medieval jewellery expert George Easton who was inspired to create the des
ign from historical artefacts such as relics and illustrations relating to the c
ontentious monarch. ‘The crown is plated with gold, with the circle set enamel
led with white roses and pearls,’ The York Press reported. ‘On the roses are
 set rubies and sapphires, representing the livery colours of the house of York.
 The crosses of the crown have more enamelled white roses, set with emeralds and
 turquoises.’ The historian had the idea of commissioning the crown when he wa
s carrying the king’s remains away from the archaeological site, having been i
nvolved in searching for the lost remains of the monarch. The funeral crown is n
ow on show at the Richard III Experience in York's Monk Bar – one of the medie
val gateways to York. It will go on tour around the UK before playing a part in 
the king’s reburial at Leicester Cathedral. It was announced earlier this week
 that Richard III will finally be laid to rest at Leicester Cathedral after judg
es said it was time for the monarch to be given a 'dignified burial'. Distant re
latives opposed plans to bury him in the city after his remains were discovered 
in a council car park. They said he should be placed in York Minster because it 
was a wish of 'the last medieval king of England'. The skeleton of Richard III  
was discovered at the Greyfriars excavation site in Leicester, which was a churc
h and is now the site of a car park. Now there is a 15th century-style gold-plat
ed crown in tribute to the late king . Regal: The crown is plated with gold, wit
h enamelled white roses. There are rubies and saphires at the centre of the rose
s representing the livery colours of the house of York . But the High Court told
 the claimants, who are part of the Plantagenet Alliance, there was no reason to
 interfere with the initial plans. Three judges said in a joint ruling: 'Since R
ichard III’s exhumation on September 5 2012, passions have been roused and muc
h ink has been spilt. 'Issues relating to his life and death and place of re-int
erment have been exhaustively examined and debated. 'The Very Reverend David Mon
teith, the Dean of Leicester Cathedral, has explained the considerable efforts a
nd expenditure invested by the cathedral in order to create a lasting burial pla
ce 'as befits an anointed King'. We agree that it is time for Richard III to be 
given a dignified reburial, and finally laid to rest.' Location: Richard III wil
l finally be laid to rest at Leicester Cathedral after judges said it was time f
or the monarch to be given a 'dignified burial' Richard was born in 1452 at Foth
eringhay Castle in Northamptonshire. During the War of the Roses, Richard's fath
er, Richard Plantagenet, Duke of York was killed and in 1470, Richard and his br
other Edward were exiled when Henry VI, from the rival house of Lancaster, took 
back the throne. Henry's reign was short lived and during a battle the following
 year, Edward became king. In 1483, Edward died and Richard was named as protect
or of the realm for Edward's son and successor, the 12-year-old Edward V. Edward
 V and his brother Richard were placed in the Tower of London and after a campai
gn to condemn the deceased king's marriage to Elizabeth Woodville, the princes w
ere declared illegitimate. Richard III took to the throne the following day. He 
was crowned in July and in August that year, the two princes disappeared, Rumour
s spread the king had killed them to remove any threat they may have posed to hi
s reign. In 1485, Henry Tudor, Earl of Richmond launched an attack on Richard II
I on Bosworth Field in Leicestershire. Many of Richard III's key lieutenants def
ected and he was killed in battle. Henry Tudor took the throne as Henry VII. It 
has been confirmed that Richard III had a curvature of the spine, although rumou
rs of a withered arm haven't been verified form the bones found in the Leicester
 car park last year. Last year scientists discovered the king was riddled with r
oundworm after finding large numbers of the parasite’s eggs in soil taken from
 Richard III’s pelvic region. The find suggests that the king’s intestines w
ere infected with roundworm during his life. Discovered: The remains of Richard 
III (pictured) were discovered by archaeologists in a council car park in Leices
ter. There have been heated discussions as to where the king is to be buried and
 the high court has now confirmed that he will be laid to rest in Leicester Cath
edral .