By . Sarah Johnson . PUBLISHED: . 13:02 EST, 17 December 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 1
1:16 EST, 18 December 2012 . Christmas is a time for overindulgence. But this hu
ngry hound took it too far when he swallowed a foot of fairy lights. Charlie, a 
seven-year-old crossbreed . dog from Southampton, had to be rushed to the operat
ing table and saved by a team of vets who performed . life-saving surgery on him
. Scroll down for video . All lit up: A team of vets had to operate on a dog tha
t swallowed a foot of Christmas fairy lights . Owner Sharon Fay, who refers to h
er dog as the ‘light of her life’, became concerned when she noticed bits of
 wire sticking out of Charlie's faeces in the garden. The 45-year-old said: ‘I
 hadn't even noticed that the lights had been chewed at this stage but it quickl
y became clear what had happened. ‘Back in March he ate one of my scarves and 
needed an operation to remove it, but I thought it was just a one-off incident a
s he hadn't shown any signs that he was going to be a repeat offender. I've had 
dogs all my life and have never known a dog act like this before.’ An X-ray sh
ed light on Charlie's problem - the tangled remains of the decorations showed up
 in his stomach and would have proved fatal if they were not removed. Shedding l
ight on the situation: This X-ray shows the tangled remains of the decorations i
n the dog's stomach . A light snack: Charlie eyes up some fairy lights. He has a
 track record for eating bizarre objects like his owner's scarf . Vets rushed Ch
arlie to the operating table and removed the Christmas decorations, also finding
 a shoelace. PDSA senior veterinary surgeon Sophie Bell said that she had never 
seen a case like this before. ‘Over the years I've seen plenty of cases of dog
s swallowing strange objects - socks, dummies, rubber ducks, but it's the first 
time any of us have treated a dog that has actually eaten fairy lights,’ she s
aid. ‘A foreign body of this nature could easily have caused severe internal i
njuries so Charlie was very, very lucky. He was also fortunate that the glass di
dn't cut his mouth or throat. And he could have been electrocuted if he'd bitten
 through the wire when the lights were switched on. 'Light of my life': Owner Sh
aron Fay became concerned when she saw bits of wire sticking out of Charlie's fa
eces in the garden . ‘With the Christmas season upon us, I'd advise owners to 
keep any edible items out of reach of inquisitive pets to avoid them from becomi
ng ill over the festive season.’ Charlie returned home and has since gone on t
o make a full recovery, much to the delight of his owner. Ms Fay said: ‘I'll c
ertainly be keeping an extra close eye on him from now on and have Charlie-proof
ed my house now.’ PDSA is advising pet owners to be extra cautious this Christ
mas. Its vets see many cases of pets getting their paws on inappropriate festive
 items every year, ranging from Christmas decorations, chocolate and cocktail st
icks to toys, balloons and bones.