Driving tests should have a distinction grade to improve road safety, a Tory min
ister has said. Skills minister Matthew Hancock said it is wrong that would-be d
rivers can only pass or fail. He said that if there was a higher level to aspire
 to, insurance firms would be able to offer cheaper premiums to the best drivers
 – which could make the country’s roads safer. Test: Almost a quarter of the
 road accidents resulting in death or serious injury last year involved a driver
 under 24. That age group is roughly four times more likely to be involved in a 
serious accident (file picture) It comes after the Government said it was consid
ering raising the driving age to 18 – from the current 17 – in a attempt to 
reduce the number of fatal accidents. Youths could be forced to wait until they 
are 19 before they qualify for a full licence, and all motorists under 30 could 
be banned from giving their friends a lift or driving at night for 12 months aft
er they pass their test. Almost a quarter of the road accidents resulting in dea
th or serious injury last year involved a driver under 24. That age group is rou
ghly four times more likely to be involved in a serious accident. Mr Hancock, wh
o is Conservative MP for West Suffolk, made his suggestion at a car factory in O
xford last week, at an event where apprentices met David Cameron. ‘One of the 
things that’s in the . implementation platform is that every apprenticeship in
 the future will . have a pass, fail or distinction,’ he said. Fifteen minors 
allowed: Currently, learner drivers are given some indication of how they fared 
by seeing their report card at the end of the test, on which their minor or majo
r faults are marked (file picture) ‘I’m personally very committed to this. P
eople say ... you can be a perfectly good bricklayer or you can be brilliant
. Parents who park illegally when dropping off or picking up their children from
 school could soon find themselves caught on camera. The cameras, which are time
d to switch on during the morning and afternoon school run, spot those who stop 
in restricted zones. The surveillance system records footage of the number plate
 and no-parking sign and sends it to councils, which can then use it  to issue 
fines of up to £120. Five councils in London and at least two others outside th
e capital are testing the system, which costs £16,000. Manufacturer Videalert r
efused to say which they were. Actor Tom Conti, 71, who drops his grandchild off
 at school in London, compared the camera system to surveillance by the Stasi. H
e said: ‘The councils are doing this for revenue. To target parents is frankly
 disgusting.’ ‘People say the driving test is just pass or fail. But actuall
y if we had a distinction on the driving test, maybe those people could get lowe
r premiums and be safer drivers.’ Currently, learner drivers are given some in
dication of how they fared by seeing their report card at the end of the test, o
n which their minor or major faults are marked. Up to 15 minors are allowed befo
re they will be failed. Sources at the Department for Business and Skills said i
t was not official Government policy to have a distinction level, but that it wa
s an idea Mr Hancock was in favour of. He is particularly close to Chancellor Ge
orge Osborne, meaning his thoughts are discussed at the highest levels. Last nig
ht Edmund King, president of the AA, said the idea was ‘interesting’ and cou
ld help make roads safer. He said the distinction pass could be reserved for tho
se who excelled in their tests and completed advanced lessons. ‘Young drivers 
are not ready for Britain’s roads after passing their tests,’ he said. ‘Th
ey are ten times more likely to have an accident in the first year after passing
 their test. ‘The idea of having a distinction is interesting. If a new driver
 has completed lessons on motorways and driving at night and excelled at their t
est they could get a lower insurance premium.’