It's a Saturday night in Sisaket, a small town in Thailand's Isan province, and 
huge crowds have gathered around a makeshift boxing ring ahead of the big fight.
 But the two promising fighters about to take to the ring aren't your average bo
xers: Instead, they're an 11-year-old boy named Nat Thanarak and his opposition 
- a 12-year-old called Nong Em. Muay Thai is one of the toughest martial arts in
 the world and children as young as seven are paid to compete in vicious bouts t
hat attract bets which run into thousands of baht. Scroll down for video . Painf
ul: A little boy grimaces during a bout. Thai boxing allows strikes with the fee
t and elbows as well as fists . Professional: Despite his lack of years, Nat Tha
narak, 11, is a professional Thai boxer . Thailand has an estimated 30,000 child
 boxers but the impact of beginning a fighting career so young can be severe, wi
th brain damage comparable to that seen in car accident victims and early onset 
dementia among the risks. Despite the risks, it is not illegal for children to f
ight provided they have their parents permission. But although young fighters ar
e supposed to wear padded clothing, in practice, they rarely do. Even if it mean
s the chance of serious injury to their children, in poverty-stricken regions su
ch as Isan, the lure of prize money can prove too much to resist - with or witho
ut pads. One such fighter is Nat Thanarak, a boy from a poor family whose main s
ource of income is the pittance his mother, a nanny working in Bangkok, sends th
em each month. The money he makes is the difference between eating and starving 
and so, the little boy lives a life that involves four hours of training each da
y, a strict diet and little time for play. 'I do it because I get money,' he exp
lains in his childish treble. Asked what he'd do should he manage to win one of 
the more lucrative fights staged in Bangkok, he replies: 'Buy a motorbike!' Tiny
: Despite risking brain damage, dementia and serious injury, children as young a
s seven compete . Fighter: Nat Thanarak and his father Watchara who says he worr
ies about what might happen to his son . His . upcoming fight with Nong Em is an
 important one and has attracted huge . bets, including a 50,000 baht (£1,000) 
flutter raised by his village - a . vast amount in Thailand, where £1,000 is mo
re than the average person . earns in a year. But . to win it, he needs to weigh
 25kg and is currently 3kg overweight. As a . result, his father Watchara has cr
anked up his regime, which already involves . push-ups, lifting oil cans and bui
lding up his neck muscles courtesy of a . chunk of concrete attached to his hat.
 'This is the most important fight of his career,' explains Mr Thanarak. 'But he
 needs to lose three kilos before he can fight.' His solution is drastic. Daily 
8km runs in 30 degree heat, all while sporting a sweat suit in a bid to get rid 
of excess water and help him lose weight. The competition: Nat will face 12-year
-old Nong Em who won his first fight with a knock out aged seven . Working out: 
In a bid to lose weight, Nat does 8km runs in 30 degree heat while wearing a swe
at suit . Despite the dangers, unemployed Mr Thanarak says he has no choice. 'So
metimes we can't make ends meet,' he explains. 'We are broke and have to borrow 
money. 'If he didn't fight, I would go to work in Bangkok with my wife and send 
. money back to my kids,' he continues. 'Sometimes Nat realises how much is ridi
ng on his boxing but sometimes he doesn't . because he's too young. He wants to 
play - he misses his friends.' But not being able to play is the least of Nat's 
concerns. As researchers at Bangkok's Ramathibodi Hospital have revealed, the ch
ild risks far more than limited playtime. 'Their brains are still growing,' expl
ains Professor Jiraporn Laothamatas. 'When you do damage to a child, it's much m
ore severe than in an adult. Education: Children who show promise in Muay Thai a
re sent to boxing camps with fees paid from winnings . Brutal: Children taking p
art in Muay Thai bouts can kick and elbow their way to victory as well as punch 
. Known as 'the art of eight limbs' Muay Thai involves using the arms, shins, fi
sts and feet to overcome opponents. Invented in Thailand, the sport became widel
y popular after being incorporated into military training by King Naresuan in 15
60. Until recently, bonds made from knotted rope were used to protect the knuckl
es and damage the opposing fighter but after several deaths, they were exchanged
 for padded gloves in the 1990s. 'There . might be some lower intelligence level
 compared to normal standard . kids. Some dementia might happen. Some don't thin
k well, don't feel well . but they don't know how to tell what's different to th
em.' Mr Thanarak is not unaware of the risks and says he does worry about the ri
sk of brain injury. 'I am worried about damage to his brain . but my son loves b
oxing,' he says. 'He wants to fight. I told him to stop after the . last fight. 
He refused. If he doesn't fight, our money will go . down and that's a problem b
ecause the money is supporting our family. 'The fact is, I don't want him to fig
ht. He's still so young.' For his own part, Nat says he wants to carry on. 'I wi
ll continue training,' he insists. 'It makes me strong and it will make my villa
ge famous.' It might also leave him with brain damage but for now, little Nat an
d thousands like him will continue to risk life and limb in the boxing ring. See
 the whole story in Unreported World, tonight at 7.30pm on Channel 4 . Knock out
: Many fights end in a brain-bruising knock out with some left unconscious for u
p to a minute .