Otsuchi, Japan (CNN) -- Kyoko Ogawa wore the brave face the world associated wit
h Japan's tsunami survivors. The March 11 catastrophe washed away all her earthl
y possessions. She watched as her hotel burned to the ground in a gas explosion 
triggered by the tsunami; a hotel that had been in her family for generations. S
he was determined not to let the disaster break her. But after the elation of fi
nding her son alive, the reality of losing her livelihood started to erode the c
alm facade. She was in turmoil. She was afraid to talk to other people about it 
because she knew everyone was suffering as much as her, if not more. They were "
ganbaru," she recalls -- enduring, holding on, withstanding, and living with the
 pain. She couldn't be the only one to lose control. "I was in shock because I r
ealized that all that was precious to me was gone," she says, six months on from
 that terrible day. "I didn't know what to do from then on. I became tormented."
 That was the start of a slippery slope down a dark trail of despair. It's a fam
iliar story in Otsuchi, northeastern Japan, where the devastating earthquake and
 tsunami turned much of the town in Iwate Prefecture into rubble. Today, much of
 that physical debris has been cleared away. But the emotional wreckage of the s
urvivors is proving much more difficult to remove, as the mental scars from that
 day linger months later. In Ogawa's case, depression could have had tragic cons
equences for her had she not met Suimei Morikawa, a volunteer psychiatrist who l
istened patiently to her troubles one day at an evacuation center. Morikawa beca
me the difference between life and death. She says she probably would have ended
 her life if the doctor hadn't been there for her. "I was so moved by her approa
ch to life," recalls Morikawa. "She may have been suffering and wanting to end h
er life because she had lost so much, but she also desperately wanted to get ove
r that. I was moved by her willingness to get out of her own situation. I just h
elped her a little." Concerns about suicide and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (
PTSD) are growing among mental health specialists working in the region. PTSD in
 particular, a condition which can push people over the edge if not addressed, c
an show up months after the initial shock. Suicide is also a major concern in Ja
pan. According to the World Health Organization, Japan has the fifth highest sui
cide rate in the world. More than 30,000 suicides are reported each year, accord
ing to the country's national police agency, with Iwate Prefecture -- one of the
 regions hit hardest by the tsunami -- having one of the biggest problems. Marik
o Ukiyo, a psychologist and volunteer counselor, is part of a therapy group call
ed "Team Japan 300." She and a number of other team members visit temporary vill
ages in the devastated region hoping to treat symptoms of PTSD and ultimately pr
event suicides. According to Ukiyo, loneliness and despair take hold when the su
rvivors move from their evacuation center to temporary housing. "It is only then
 that people see how their life has changed from their pre-disaster life," she s
ays. "The sense of loss and deep grief can overcome you quickly and if you are a
lone when that happens, you lose all hope for the future. I think this period is
 when they need help the most." But getting help to the victims is proving to be
 a challenge in Japan, a country with limited experience in mental health care h
istorically. Ukiyo says the amount of psychological support received by tsunami 
victims now is a tenth of what the victims of 9/11 in the United States experien
ced. According to Ukiyo, the devastating 1995 earthquake in the city of Kobe sta
rted to raise awareness about the effects of post-traumatic stress -- particular
ly among the younger generation -- but many Japanese continue to find it difficu
lt to talk about sorrow and loss because of the shame of appearing weak. Ukiyo's
 strategy is to gather the residents in temporary housing for a regular get-toge
ther in a relaxed atmosphere. This gives her the opportunity to keep an eye on e
ach of the participants, observing anyone that shows signs of severe distress. T
he hope is that what starts out as small talk will gradually evolve into people 
talking about themselves and their problems. But despite her efforts Ukiyo is no
t optimistic about the region's future with trauma. "We are only now starting to
 hear about sick or depressed people six months after the tsunami," she says. Sh
e believes suicide rates will only increase. Meanwhile, Kyoko Ogawa vows not to 
be another victim. She says Dr. Morikawa pulled her back from the brink and she 
is now making plans for the future. She wants to rebuild her hotel and give back
 to those who helped her. While Ogawa is a success story for Morikawa, he worrie
s about those he will never reach in this devastated region. "Now that I have me
t these people, I have grown attached to them," he says. "It saddens me that the
re are still so many people suffering here. I can't stand the thought that there
 may be people who died because they had no-one to talk to."