The 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami was the catalyst for a peace process in the restiv
e Indonesian province of Aceh. Could Nepal's disaster also bring historic change
?
What's been agreed?
Monday's 16-point agreement divides Nepal into eight federal states, the boundar
ies of which will be decided by a federal commission.  The names of the states w
ill be decided by a two-thirds majority vote in assemblies to be set up in each 
state.
Nepal will have a parliamentary form of government with two houses. The lower ho
use will have 275 members, 60% of whom will be directly elected, while 40% will 
be elected through proportional representation. The upper house will have 45 sea
ts.
The prime minister will have executive powers and be chosen from the biggest par
ty or coalition in parliament. The country will also have a ceremonial president
 elected by parliament and provincial assemblies.
A constitutional court will be set up for 10 years to resolve disputes.
Did the earthquake focus minds?
It's been nearly 10 years since Maoist rebels laid down their arms and joined Ne
pal's political process. Politicians agreed to write a new constitution by 2010,
 but have failed to come to an agreement.
When the earthquake hit on 25 April, Nepal's prime minister, Sushil Koirala, was
 out of the country. It was several days before he and other politicians took a 
visible lead in directing rescue and relief efforts.
There was a sense among Nepal's population that the political deadlock had affec
ted the politicians' ability to respond to the crisis. They were under pressure 
to show they could deliver.
However some believe the stronger parties took advantage of this to push through
 a deal which did not reflect the wishes of Nepal's smaller parties.
What's the timetable?
It's expected a draft constitution will be ready by July. It will then need to b
e approved by a two-thirds majority in parliament - the four parties who signed 
this deal have the numbers to do this. They are the Nepali Congress, the UML, th
e Maoists and one of the parties representing the Madhesi ethnic group from the 
south.
A federal commission will then have six months to draw up the borders of the eig
ht provinces and submit a proposal for approval in parliament, though there are 
fears this process could drag on for years.
What are the stumbling blocks?
The deal has been criticised as incomplete as it has yet to decide on the bounda
ries or names of the new provinces.
"The stumbling block is that the question of federalism, which has been at the h
eart of Nepali's political discourse for over five years now, has not been resol
ved," says Prashant Jha, author of Battles of the New Republic: A Contemporary H
istory of Nepal.
There are fears that the commission to decide the boundaries could be politicall
y influenced. Many small political parties which represent ethnic groups and peo
ple from the southern plains, the Terai, have already voiced their opposition. I
t's unclear whether their demands for better representation will be met.
Will it really happen?
After years of deadlock over the new constitution this is a significant breakthr
ough which sees the end of the division between Nepal's Maoists, who have been c
ampaigning for federalism, and the country's established political elite who hav
e been reluctanct to cede power from Kathmandu.
But the deal could fall through because it does not resolve the differences betw
een the country's main parties and its marginalised social and ethnic groups who
 feel excluded from this deal.
"Until the big parties reach out to these forces, we cannot call this a social c
ontract which has the buy-in of Nepal's diverse groups," says Prashant Jha.