Monaco coach Leonardo Jardim warned his players not to rest on their laurels, te
lling them that they face the most difficult night of their careers when they de
fend their 3-1 lead at Stade Louis II  against Arsenal on Tuesday night. Portugu
ese coach Jardim emphasised the threat of Mesut Ozil and Santi Cazorla and is tr
ying to prepare his players for an expected attacking onslaught from Arsenal, wi
th the Barclays Premier League side needing to at least three goals to go throug
h in the Champions League tie. Jardim said: 'At this stage we're now at half-tim
e and we're two goals ahead but it's true that our opponents have so many qualit
y players in their squad. So it will be very difficult for us and everyone knows
 if it will be the most difficult game we've had in years. Monaco coach Leonardo
 Jardim speaks during his Champions League press conference on Monday . Jardim f
eels Arsenal still pose a threat even if Monaco carry a 3-1 lead from their firs
t leg win at the Emirates . Monaco train at their base in La Turbie, France as t
hey prepare for the second leg . Monaco striker Dimitar Berbatov stretches as he
 joins the rest of his team-mates for a training session . 'I don't think Arsena
l underestimated - it's just that we played a dream game at the Emirates. When f
acing such a team as Arsenal with players like Santi Cazorla, Mesut Ozil and Dan
ny Welbeck, it's true we can't take it easy and have to focus on the game we pla
yed at Emirates. 'In comparison to pervious years French teams are playing at a 
better level in the Champions League. Paris Saint-Germain knocked out Chelsea an
d they showed the quality of the work done here in France. It was the same case 
for Monaco. What we're trying to do is to show the quality of the work. Maybe it
's the year of France to beat the English.' Monaco midfielder Nabil Dirar said: 
'No-one expected us to win at Arsenal and we enjoyed the moment but then we forg
ot it straightaway. Because we know they have quality players so we know we migh
t have a little advantage but tomorrow it'll be a very difficult game. I think w
e'll see the real face of Arsenal tomorrow. But we have our strengths and we can
 play counter attack.' Monaco bring a 3-1 first leg lead back home with them aft
er their victory at the Emirates . Former Chelsea defender Ricardo Carvalho take
s part in Monaco's training session . Monaco's Portuguese duo Joao Moutinho (cen
tre) and Silva Bernardo (left) battle for the ball . Premier League side Arsenal
 need to win 3-0 or do even better to go through in the Champions League tie . M
onaco are preparing to defend their 3-1 lead at Stade Louis II stadium against A
rsenal on Tuesday night .