Global warming is claimed to be already posing problems for polar bears, whose n
umbers are waning because of melting ice, dangerous conditions and fewer hunting
 opportunities. Now experts have warned that chemical pollutants may be reducing
 the density of the bears’ penis bones. This puts them at risk of breaking the
ir penis, which could have disastrous consequences for mating and the survival o
f the endangered species. Not in rude health: Scientists have warned that chemic
al pollutants may be reducing the density of polar bears' penis bones. This puts
 the them at risk of breaking their penis, which could have disastrous consequen
ces for mating and the survival of the endangered species (stock image) Mammals 
such as otters have a penis bone, or baculum, which is thought to be a by-produc
t of evolution, although experts are not sure. Now, a team of scientists led by 
Christian Sonne at Aarhus University, Denmark, has found that a certain type of 
pollutant called polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) is associated with a less dens
e penile bone, New Scientist reported. They have previously shown bears that ha
ve high levels of pollutants named organohalogens, such as PCBs, in their bodies
, have smaller than average penis bones and testes. Organohalogens contain at le
ast one halogen such as fluorine or chlorine, and are used as solvents and pesti
cides, as well as in the making of dyes and drugs. PCBs were used to make paints
 and rubber goods in the 1930s, but were banned in 2001 after scientists discove
red they can cause cancer. The connection: A team of scientists led by Christian
 Sonne at Aarhus University, Denmark, have found that a certain type of pollutan
t called polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are associated with a less dense penil
e bone. An illustration of a toxic PCB 126 molecule is shown . Uncertain future:
 Global warming is already posing problems for polar bears, whose numbers are wa
ning thanks to melting ice, dangerous conditions and fewer hunting opportunities
. A stock image is shown . Because they break down slowly, they can still be fou
nd in the Arctic, meaning that animals such as polar bears are especially at ris
k. Together with a team from Canada, Dr Sonne examined buculum specimens from 27
9 polar bears that were born in north-east Greenland and Canada between 1990 and
 2000. They used X-rays to study the density of calcium in the bones and then co
mpared their findings with regional pollutant data. Experts have previously show
n that bears that have high levels of pollutants  in their bodies, have smaller 
than average penis bone. A collection of ancient bones is shown . The team disco
vered a connection between low bone density and high PCB levels, but stressed th
at their findings are not strong enough to prove that the pollutants are the cau
se of the problem. While experts are unsure of the exact purpose of the bacculum
 in polar bear mating, Dr Sonne thinks that a weaker bone could prove problemati
c, because if it breaks, it will likely stop a male from mating. While no extens
ive studies in the wild have been done to understand the effect pollutants on po
lar bear populations - because they are difficult and expensive - Dr Sonne think
s chemicals have probably killed a lot of bears in recent decades. He even belie
ves PCBs, for example, may have cause changes to the bear’s genes. It’s alre
ady been found that thin bears have higher levels of pollutants in their bodies,
 so some experts fear that hungry bears may be more vulnerable to the effects of
 chemicals such as PCBs. In 2013, scientists uncovered a worrying trend in 'shri
nking' penis bones in otters, possibly caused by chemicals. Experts at Cardiff U
niversity and the Chemicals, Health and Environment Monitoring (CHEM) Trust sugg
ested a link between hormone disrupting chemicals and problems with male reprodu
ctive health. Experts studying the reproductive health of the mammals in England
 and Wales were concerned to find a decrease in the weight of otters' penis bone
s. Other health problems in males included an increase in undescended testicles 
and cysts on sperm-carrying tubes. In 2013, scientists uncovered a worrying tren
d in 'shrinking' penis bones in otters (stock image), possibly caused by chemica
ls. Experts suggested a link between hormone disrupting chemicals and problems w
ith male reproductive health . Scientists recently warned that a a quarter of Ca
nadian polar bears could be wiped out by the end of the century because of shrin
king ice caps. Warming temperatures could destroy one tenth of the bear’s habi
tat, affecting their ability to roam across huge expanses of ice to hunt for foo
d. Biologists from the University of Alberta believe that as summers get warmer 
in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago - islands off the North American continent an
d Greenland – more permanent ice cover will melt away every year. Scientists h
ave warned that a quarter of Canadian polar bears (pictured) could be wiped out 
by the end of the century because of shrinking ice caps. Warming temperatures co
uld destroy one tenth of the bear’s habitat, affecting their ability to roam a
cross huge expanses of ice to hunt for food and mate . This means that by 2100, 
each polar bear population in the Archipelago may have to endure between two and
 five months of the year without ice at sea, which would likely lead to starvati
on and hamper their ability to mate. Projected global warming would adversely af
fect one tenth of their habitat, which is being damaged by man-made pollution, a
ccording to the study. It found that sea ice across the Arctic is declining and 
altering the physical characteristics of marine ecosystems . The study, publishe
d in Plos One, used sea ice projections from 2006 to 2100 to gain an insight int
o the conservation challenges for polar bears. Biologists from the University of
 Alberta believe that as summers get warmer in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago (
mapped) - islands off the North American continent and Greenland – more perman
ent ice cover will melt away every year .