By . Ap Reporter and Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 14:49 EST, 2 August 2013
 . | . UPDATED: . 14:50 EST, 2 August 2013 . A woman charged with defacing the W
ashington National Cathedral has been ordered to a halfway house. Jiamei Tian, 5
8, appeared at a preliminary hearing in D.C. Superior Court today, where a judge
 ordered that she wear an ankle monitoring bracelet and barred her from leaving 
the halfway house or having visitors. The Chinese national living in the U.S. ha
s been charged with damaging two chapels of the cathedral with a soda can of gre
en paint on Monday. Nabbed: Jia M. Tian, 58, has been ordered to a halfway house
 and must wear an ankle monitoring bracelet, a judge said . Clean-up: A worker c
leans green paint from the organ in the Bethlehem Chapel at the National Cathedr
al on Monday. The Chinese woman was arrested at the scene with a soda can contai
ning green paint . Vandal: The woman appeared in D.C. Superior Court on alongsid
e a Mandarin translator . Police and prosecutors also believe . she's connected 
to several acts of similar vandalism, including at the . Lincoln Memorial, a chu
rch and at a Smithsonian statue. Authorities . haven't revealed a motive. They s
ay Tian has a Chinese passport and . that she was traveling in Washington on an 
expired visa. In another church near Thomas Circle, Tian allegedly splashed the 
organ with a mixture of white paint, feces and urine. D.C. police Chief Cathy L.
 Lanier told NewsChannel8 on Tuesday that the paint incidents are likely to be c
onnected and that the woman may have 'mental health issues.' Authorities also sa
id that Tian appears to speak very little English and her motives remain unclear
. Green paint was discovered splattered onto the Lincoln Memorial early last Fri
day morning, and it was found later on a statue outside the Smithsonian headquar
ters on the National Mall, as reported by Wusa9.com. Target: The highly-popular 
Lincoln Memorial was splashed with paint . Gentle work: The green paint is caref
ully removed from the organ in the Washington National Cathedral's historic Beth
lehem Chapel on Tuesday . Police said she had no fixed address but that she told
 officers she lived in Los Angeles. Following her arrest, a witness contacted po
lice and reported that the woman had been seen attending a service at a church l
ess than a block from Thomas Circle, according to court documents. The witness r
eported that the woman was carrying three bags with her. After she left, the wit
ness found that a pipe organ in the church had been splattered with white paint,
 urine and feces, documents show. Tian was arrested inside the cathedral on Mond
ay afternoon, shortly after the still-wet green paint was discovered there. When
 . a police officer approached her, she walked away and placed the soda . can wi
th green paint inside one of three bags that were sitting on . chairs in the cha
pel. Turning green: The woman was arrested Monday on charges she vandalized two 
chapels at Washington, DC's National Cathedral with green paint. She also had gr
een paint on her clothing, shoes and body, according to the documents. She . was
 wearing a multicolored sock on her right arm, and a similar sock . was found in
 a trash can in a bathroom at the cathedral on top of a can . of green paint, ac
cording to the documents. The bags placed in the chapel also had cans of green p
aint in them, the documents show. Cleanup . crews have been working for the past
 few days to remove the paint from . the Lincoln Memorial. Cleanup and restorati
on work at the cathedral was . estimated to cost $15,000. The Episcopal cathedra
l serves as the nation's spiritual home and has hosted state funerals and inaugu
ral prayer services. Other targets: The nearby Lincoln Memorial was also vandali
zed in the area . Similar: Green paint was also used to vandalize the Lincoln Me
morial, along with some white paint . Cleanup: National Park Service employees c
lean green paint from the Lincoln Memorial in Washington after it was targeted .
 Bethlehem Chapel has surveillance cameras, but it wasn't immediately clear whet
her the vandalism was captured on video, said Richard Weinberg, a cathedral spok
esman. D.C. police said paint from the cathedral would likely be sent to the FBI
 for testing. Bethlehem Chapel was opened in 1912 and is the oldest section of t
he cathedral. It was the site of President Woodrow Wilson's burial rites, and hi
s remains were entombed there for more than three decades. Wilson's remains were
 later interred in a memorial bay on the cathedral's main level.