By . Helen Pow . PUBLISHED: . 12:23 EST, 22 July 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 12:47 EST
, 22 July 2013 . Children born in Atlanta, Detroit, Cleveland and Cincinnati are
 far less likely to pull themselves out of poverty than those whose parents earn
 the same amount of money in San Jose, San Francisco, Seattle and New York, a fa
scinating new study has shown. Top economists at Harvard and University of Calif
ornia, Berkeley analyzed millions of anonymous earnings records to compare incom
e mobility across metropolitan areas - and the results are surprising. Living in
 an area with higher average incomes, larger tax credits for the poor or more lo
cal colleges does not necessarily improve the chances of someone rising beyond t
he station of their birth. But four broad factors did appear to have an affect, 
researchers pointed out, and they included the size and dispersion of the local 
middle class. The city where you live: The interesting study found the odds of r
ising to another income level are notably lower in certain cities, like Atlanta,
 and much higher in places like New York . If all else was equal, Americans livi
ng in cities with poor families more dispersed among mixed-income neighborhoods 
are more likely to climb the income ladder. Children growing up in areas with mo
re two-parent households, better elementary schools and high schools, and more c
ivic engagement, including membership in religious and community groups, were al
so more able to pull themselves out of poverty and up the income scale. 'Where y
ou grow up matters,' Nathaniel Hendren, a Harvard economist and one of the study
’s authors, told The New York Times. 'There is tremendous variation across the
 U.S. in the extent to which kids can rise out of poverty.' Atlanta: Children bo
rn in Atlanta, pictured, are far less likely to pull themselves out of poverty t
han those whose parents earn the same amount of money in other cities . Where yo
u lived matters less for well-off children than for middle-class and poor childr
en, the researchers found. The chances that wealthy children grow up to be wealt
hy are broadly similar across all cities it appears. Metropolitan areas with lar
ger black . populations had lower upward-mobility rates, but the researchers . b
elieved this was not primarily because of their race. For example, both . white 
and black residents of Atlanta have low upward mobility, The . Times reported. I
nterestingly . Atlanta and Seatle have a similar average income, yet the differe
nce . between upward mobility rates in the two cities are stark. On . average, f
airly poor children in Seattle — those who grew up in the . 25th percentile of
 the national income distribution — do as well . financially when they grow up
 as middle-class children — those who grew . up at the 50th percentile — fro
m Atlanta, according to The Times. Moving up the ladder: The study found childre
n living in parts of California and the Northeast were far more likely to climb 
the income ladder than areas with the same average income in other parts of the 
country . Yet, children who moved from a city with poor rates of income mobility
 to a city with higher mobility rates at a young age were found to do almost as 
well at climbing the income ladder as kids who lived their whole lives in the la
tter region. If they moved as teenagers, however, they did less well, suggesting
 the characteristics of different regions rather than something inherent and unc
hangeable in the residents is responsible. The researchers pointed out that thei
r data allowed them to identify only correlations not the causes for the intrigu
ing patterns they discovered.