(CNN) -- The Supreme Court tried mightily to wade through a cloud of bureaucrati
c regulations Monday over setting clear air standards, a high-stakes environment
al and economic fight pitting the Obama administration against a coalition of st
ates and utilities. The justices on Monday heard six separate appeals, which wer
e consolidated into more than 100 minutes of often dense oral arguments. A rulin
g is expected by June. At issue is narrow, but potentially far-reaching -- wheth
er the Environmental Protection Agency can tighten emissions standards for "stat
ionary" greenhouse gas sources, such as power plants, in what the administration
 says is an effort to stem the effects of climate change and global warming. In 
the larger political sphere, this issue could be major test of executive authori
ty, with many conservative groups painting President Barack Obama as misusing hi
s power and ignoring the will of the legislature. Obama just last week announced
 new executive rules to extend carbon emission standards to larger trucks and bu
ses. The White House said ongoing stalemates on Capitol Hill prompted the Presid
ent to act. Republicans in Congress and their allies have expressed similar conc
erns over discretionary executive branch changes and delays in implementing the 
Obamacare health reform law, a tepid federal response to recent state marijuana 
legalization, and a refusal to defend a law that did not recognize legally-marri
ed same-sex couples for federal purposes. The high court last summer struck down
 that provision in the federal Defense of Marriage Act. The Supreme Court, in 20
07, affirmed the conclusions by much of the scientific community that greenhouse
 gases-- including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide emissions-- are an 
air pollutant, but that case dealt with emissions from motor vehicles. A range o
f business groups say the agency then improperly extended its regulatory authori
ty to stationary sources. They worry the unchecked, expanded rules could someday
 apply to millions of other small carbon emitters -- schools, small businesses, 
and shopping malls. Defining "air pollutant" within the context of greenhouse ga
ses -- and the ability of the EPA to exercise its rulemaking authority absent wh
at it says was a clear congressional mandate -- took up much of the courtroom de
bate. Justice Sonia Sotomayor said the half-dozen parties opposing the EPA canno
t even agree on defining an "air pollutant" for regulatory purposes . "That to m
e is the quintessential ambiguity in a statute where we give deference to the" E
PA, said Sotomayor. "So if your side can't even come to one interpretation, why 
shouldn't we defer to the agency?" But Justice Anthony Kennedy, who could prove 
the court's decisive fifth vote, bluntly addressed U.S. Solicitor General Donald
 Verrilli. "I have to say in reading the brief for the states and reading your b
rief, I couldn't find a single precedent that strongly supports your position," 
he said. Texas and 16 other the states in the South and Midwest were among the p
arties whose cases are under review by the high court. The justices had previous
ly rejected three other related appeals, including one from Virginia -- broader 
challenges to the EPA's power over carbon emissions. A coalition of 15 states ba
cks the White House. Some progressive groups worry the conservative majority Sup
reme Court has been overly friendly to corporate interests in recent years, and 
could rule in this case against the administration. But an outcome in this his c
ase was not clear from the arguments. "We have to think about it, along the para
meter of separation of powers and whether the way in which the agency has percei
ved it here has arrogated an exceptional and troubling degree of discretion to d
esign its own climate change program," Peter Keisler, the attorney representing 
the private groups bringing suit, told the court. Justice Elena Kagan, the most 
vocal backer of the administration, said the Clean Air Act was originally passed
 and amended before a clear understanding of the effect greenhouses gases were h
aving on the planet. She said the EPA made a careful determination that they wer
e different from pollution sources that cause breathing and other health problem
s, such as smog, and could apply different monitoring standards. "What's happene
d here is that you have this new kind of emission that basically makes these two
 terms of the statute irreconcilable, and the agency has essentially picked one,
" said Kagan. "It said: 'Look, we're not going to just exempt a broad class of p
ollutants. Instead, we're going to fudge the numbers.' And why isn't that the mo
re reasonable of the two things to do?" she asked. Verrilli made clear the stake
s in his oral presentation, telling the court that greenhouse gas emissions are 
"an urgent environmental" issue. "It's the gravest environmental problem that we
 face now as far as EPA's judgment, and it is one that gets worse with the passa
ge of time," he said. But some justices questioned the agency's reach. "Are gree
nhouse gases the only air pollutant for which EPA has the authority to change th
e statutory thresholds?" asked Justice Samuel Alito. "Could it do this for anoth
er pollutant, something other than any of the greenhouse gases?" After Kennedy a
nd Chief Justice John Roberts pressed the point, Verrilli suggested the EPA coul
d broaden its discretionary authority, absent a specific congressional mandate. 
This is the second major environmental regulation case that will be heard this t
erm. The justices in December heard arguments over the EPA's ability to measure 
emissions from an upwind state that is polluting a downwind state, requiring upw
ind states to pay for greenhouse gas reductions. A ruling in that case is still 
pending. Many business groups hope the conservative majority will limit the reac
h of government in this and a range of regulatory areas, which the Chamber of Co
mmerce and others say is hurting the economy and stifling innovation. The cases 
argued Monday are Chamber of Commerce of the United States v. EPA (12-1272); Tex
as v. EPA (12-1269); Southeastern Legal Foundation v. EPA (12-1268); Energy-Inte
nsive Manufacturers Working Group on Greenhouse Gas Regulation v. EPA (12-1254);
 American Chemistry Council v. EPA (12-1248); and Utility Air Regulatory Group v
. EPA (12-1146).