University of East Anglia researchers tested 594 bio-science students in their f
irst week of term at five universities.
Almost all had a grade A*, A or B in biology at A-level. But on average they ans
wered 60% of questions from their A-level core syllabus incorrectly.
The researchers blame an emphasis on teaching to the test.
Researchers tested students at:
They were told about the test beforehand but were not given any details about it
s content or subject focus. The researchers said it was unlikely,  therefore, th
at students would have revised for the test before taking it.
They were given 50 minutes to answer 38 multiple choice questions on cells, gene
tics, biochemistry and physiology.
Lead researcher for the study, Dr Harriet Jones, said: "This is the first resear
ch carried out in collaboration with an exam board to investigate how much infor
mation is lost between students sitting their A-levels and arriving at universit
y three months later.
"We found that students had forgotten around 60% of everything they learned for 
their A-levels.
"Universities expect their students to arrive with a high level of knowledge.
"What our research shows is that students are arriving at university with fantas
tic A-level grades, but having forgotten much of what they actually learned for 
their exams."
Dr Jones said the trend to teach to the test, to ensure good results for schools
' reputations, was the problem.
"This is undoubtedly a problem caused by secondary schools gearing all of their 
teaching towards students doing well in exams, in order to achieve league-table 
success," she said.
"But cramming facts for an exam doesn't give students a lasting knowledge of the
ir subject.
"School and university have very different demands. In higher education, student
s cannot rely solely on memorising information, so it is important that students
 can adapt to a more in-depth approach to learning."
In response to concerns that A-levels were not  preparing students adequately fo
r the rigours of degree-level study, Education Secretary Michael Gove has announ
ced changes to A-level courses.
From September 2015,  A-level syllabuses in England will be linear, with all ass
essment at the end of two years of study, rather than the current modular style 
of study.
Leading universities are also closely involved in developing the content of the 
new A levels, to ensure students are fully prepared for university study.
The UEA report said: "If A-levels are to be redesigned to enhance their impact f
or students entering higher education, then creating programmes which encourage 
retention of key concepts should be a key factor to consider."
The report concludes: "Secondary education has become increasingly politicised, 
which involves greater emphasis on testing and results of tests, target setting 
and performance."