By . Anna Edwards . Imomotimi Wilson treated his alleged victim 'like a piece of
 meat' A man on trial for rape for allegedly refusing to wear a condom on the th
ird time he had sex with a woman in a one-night stand has told the jury it was 1
00 per cent consensual. Imomotimi Wilson, 30, met his alleged victim in a pub an
d she agreed to go back to his house but told him she would only have sex if he 
used protection. They had consensual sex twice but on the third occasion claims 
that Wilson failed to use a condom. The woman, a 40-year-old, said Wilson treate
d her 'like a piece of meat' as the alleged attack took place. She said he held 
her hands over her head and told her 'if you love me you'll do it' before raping
 her for 15-20 seconds. But giving evidence at his trial at Cambridge Crown Cour
t Wilson said 'she said stop and that's when I stopped'. He said: 'She said I fe
el like having sex again and I said "Yes, I feel like having sex with you as wel
l again but there is no condom". 'She was romancing me, touching and kissing, an
d I said no, I do not want to do that because there is no condom. 'She started k
issing me again and then I penetrated her. I believed 100 per cent it was consen
sual. 'Then she said stop and that's when I stopped. There were three seconds of
 penetration.' The court heard how the pair met at The Regal pub in Cambridge on
 June 9 last year . The court heard how she phoned police later that afternoon a
nd Wilson was arrested . The court heard how the pair met at The Regal pub in Ca
mbridge on June 9 last year and took a taxi back to Wilson's shared house in the
 city at 2am. She then spent most of the evening in bed with the defendant befor
e leaving the property at around 6am. The court heard how she phoned police late
r that afternoon and Wilson was arrested. Caroline Allison, prosecuting, said: '
The prosecution say that she had made it perfectly clear in plain straight-forwa
rd language that the situation was no condom, no sex and that nothing had happen
ed in the intervening period that would invite a reasonable belief that she was 
indeed consenting to unprotected sex.' Wilson, of Cambridge, has pleaded not gui
lty to rape after claiming he stopped on the third time the woman said no. The t
rial continues. Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.