By . Mark Duell . Last updated at 11:49 PM on 30th November 2011 . The Dow Jones
 today closed up almost 500 points in an astonishing rally after the world’s m
ajor central banks announced a desperate move to kick-start the global financial
 system. The operation, led by the U.S. Federal Reserve, came amid fears that at
 least one major European bank . may be teetering on the brink of collapse. The 
dramatic move to shore up the world's creaking economy was undermined after the 
credit ratings agency Standard & Poor’s downgraded its . ratings on 15 global 
banks by one notch. All smiles: Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock 
Exchange before the closing bell this afternoon . Cheered by traders: A view of 
a board on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, as the Dow shot up . The ce
ntral banks of Europe, the U.S. and others agreed to give banks cheaper access t
o loans in U.S. dollars, which aims to avert a credit crisis like the one after 
Lehman . Brothers collapsed in 2008. The . Dow jumped 490 points in its biggest 
gain since March 2009 - rising 4.2 . per cent to close at 12,045. The S&P was up
 52 points to 1,245; and . the Nasdaq jumped 105 points to 2,620. This move, aki
n to interest rate cuts, gives credit markets extra liquidity by effectively pro
viding banks with unlimited U.S. dollars to fund themselves. 'Cutting swap costs
 is the equivalent of interest rate cuts. The banks will be hoping this is a tur
ning point in the crisis,' economist Jeremy Cook said. But last night John Higgi
ns, . of the Capital Economics research consultancy, . said the central banks’
 intervention would provide temporary relief for . Europe, but warned that it wa
s ‘not a game changer’. He added: ‘Welcome . as the news was, we do not th
ink it signals a turning point in the . crisis.’ In a bleak assessment of the 
crisis engulfing Europe, a UK government spokesman said: ‘We are experiencing 
a credit crunch.’ The surprise plan was aimed at preventing global financial m
arkets from coming under pressure that could potentially lead to a seizing up of
 credit. For November, the Dow edged up 0.76 per . cent, but the S&P fell 0.50 p
er cent and the Nasdaq Composite . dropped 2.39 per cent overall. Gesture: Speci
alist Michael McDonnell, right, works with traders on the floor of the stock exc
hange today . Huge increase: The Dow jumped 490 points in its biggest gain since
 March 2009 - rising 4.2 per cent . The Federal Reserve has joined with other ce
ntral banks to kick-start the global economy. They want to make it easier for ba
nks to get dollars when needed and avert a credit crunch. Non-U.S. banks need do
llars to fund American operations and make dollar loans to firms. But banks are 
afraid to lend because nobody is sure who holds bad government debt. If a Europe
an government defaults then it will probably put the U.S. back into recession, s
o it is in everyone's interests to avoid this. The central banks will reduce the
 cost of temporary dollar loans offered to banks - called liquidity swaps - to a
 half percentage point. The Fed noted banks were not having difficulty now getti
ng funds in short-term markets - but it still has a ‘range of tools’ for use
 as a backstop. Britain’s FTSE closed up 3.2 per cent to 5,505, the DAX in Ger
many was up 5 per cent to 6,089 and France’s CAC was up 4.2 per cent to 3,155.
 Traders said the move recalled the co-ordinated action to steady global markets
 that was taken during the 2008 financial crisis. Economist Mark Cliffe said pol
icymakers are ‘beginning to address the problem’. He stated there was a ‘v
ery dark mood’ developing last week. Mr Cliffe added that policymakers must st
ep in with ‘aggressive measures’ and begin to ‘confront the financing prob
lems of the sovereigns’. Other economists welcomed the move but warned that a 
lot of work remains to deal with the underlying sovereign debt crisis. Variation
s: This is a colour-coded table of credit ratings of euro zone nations, as well 
as the U.S. and Japan . Compared: This graphic charts latest growth forecasts fo
r major world economies from the OECD . Silvio Perruzzo said 'the ECB has more s
cope to go' and it is expected to announce more measures in its next policy meet
ing on December 8. 'Cutting swap costs is the equivalent of interest rate cuts. 
The banks will be hoping this is a turning point in the crisis'Jeremy Cook . 'Do
ing more on the collateral side is probably the second step. The ECB is helping 
the banking system while sovereigns do their homework,' he said. The shock agree
ment came as European Union finance ministers met in Brussels to discuss radical
 plans to address the debt crisis. It could see member states handing over contr
ol of their finances. Leaders have been warned they have 10 days to complete a c
risis response. Euro zone ministers agreed detailed . plans to leverage the Euro
pean Financial Stability Mechanism (EFSF), but . warned they may have to turn to
 the IMF for more help to avert . financial disaster. Europe trouble: The giant 
Euro sign is seen in the centre of the protest camp Occupy Frankfurt in front of
 the European Central Bank in Germany . Olli Rehn, Economic and Monetary Affairs
 Commissioner, said: 'We are now entering the critical period of 10 days to comp
lete and conclude the crisis response of the European Union.' Italian and Spanis
h bond yields resumed . their inexorable climb towards unsustainable levels on t
oday, as markets . assessed the rescue fund boost as inadequate. 'We are now ent
ering the critical period of 10 days to complete and conclude the crisis respons
e of the European Union' Olli Rehn . It comes as stock markets rose after buoyan
t consumer confidence figures renewed optimism in the strength of the U.S. econo
my. Europe's ongoing battle to contain its debt crisis will remain a key driver 
in markets for a while to come, especially if countries continue having to pay e
levated interest rates to get investors to lend to them. Italy was yesterday for
ced to pay a high interest rate on an auction of three-year debt. The 7.89 per c
ent rate was nearly three percentage points higher than last month. If Italy was
 to default on its debt of 1.9 trillion euros, the fallout would damage the euro
 and send shock waves throughout the global economy.