(CNN)  -- Bordeaux clinched the French league title with a 1-0 win over Caen on 
a dramatic final day of the season. Bordeaux's fans celebrate their first French
 league title in 10 years. Laurent Blanc's men were ending Lyon's seven-year hol
d on the domestic championship and winning Bordeaux's first title in 10 years. A
 goal from Yoan Gouffran early in the second half secured their 11th straight wi
n and their second trophy of the season having won the French League Cup in Apri
l. The defeat saw Caen drop to the second flight and kept Bordeaux three points 
clear of second-placed Marseille who won 4-0 at home to Rennes to keep up the pr
essure to the last. Senegal international striker Mamadou Niang scored twice wit
h Ivory Coast star  Bakari Kone also on target, but it was not enough. Lyon clos
ed their season with a 0-0 draw at Toulouse and their third place finish secures
 a place in the qualifying round for the Champions League. Once mighty Nantes al
so went down despite a 2-1 win over Auxerre, but St.Etienne stayed up with a 4-0
 win over Valenciennes. In the Spanish Primera Liga, Atletico Madrid thrashed Al
meria 3-0 to clinch a spot in the Champions League next season. Diego Forlan all
 but sealed the honor of finishing top scorer in the league with the opener for 
Atletico, his 32nd of the season, by rounding off the scoring for Atletico. Serg
io Aguero, reportedly a target for Premier League Chelsea, gave them a 19th-minu
te lead with Raul Garcia scoring the second. The win draws Atletico level on poi
nts with third placed Sevilla, who close their season, but staying two points cl
ear of fifth-placed Villarreal, 3-2 winners over Real Mallorca in their final ma
tch. European champions Barcelona, who had already clinched the Spanish title, f
inished their season with a 1-1 draw at Deportivo La Coruna. Rodolfo Bodipo put 
Depo ahead in the first half with Samuel Eto'o equalizing with a minute left. It
 leaves Barcelona with a record tally of 87 points from 38 points, well clear of
 arch-rivals and deposed champions Real Madrid. Besiktas won the Turkish league 
title with a 2-1 win over Denizlispor as nearest rivals Sivasspor lost 2-1 to la
st year's champions Galatasaray. It was the 11th championship for Besiktas, but 
first since 2003. They also won the Turkish Cup.