By . Chris Greenwood . When they first met, he was brandishing a large knife and
 his victim was bravely trying to defend his family business with a stool. But a
fter being caught red-handed career criminal Oluwatobi Ogunbanwo adopted a somew
hat different approach. In an extraordinary hand-written letter from prison, he 
begged for forgiveness from shopkeeper Eamon McCluskey and offered his ‘humble
st apologies’. Forgiven: In this image taken from the CCTV footage of the robb
ery, Mr McCluskey can be seen defending himself against armed robber Oluwatobi O
gunbanwo . The armed robber went on to say that a ‘hardworking taxpayer’ des
erves to be able to make a ‘decent living’ without the crook ‘taking what 
is yours’. The letter was passed to Mr McCluskey by police after Ogunbanwo was
 jailed for eight years for a robbery spree. He struck at his newsagent in Wimbl
edon Park, South West London, as Mr McCluskey was about to shut up shop for the 
night in February. Wearing a mask over the lower half of his face and armed with
 a knife, he leapt on the counter screaming at the business owner to hand over h
is takings. His terrified 51-year-old victim grabbed a stool which he used to fe
nd off the attacker as he tried to escape and shouted for help. 'I'm sorry I rob
bed you with a butcher's knife': Oluwatobi Ogunbanwo, 22, wrote this letter of a
pology to Mr McCluskey for robbing his newsagent in Wimbledon Park, South West L
ondon . Attack: During the robbery, Mr McCluskey defended himself with a stool a
nd threw beer bottles at the young criminal as he jumped over the counter bearin
g a knife . Ogunbanwo climbed over the counter and removed the till from the sho
p, making off with £60 which police found on his person when they arrested hm a
 short time later . But Ogunbanwo blocked him in behind the counter and Mr McClu
skey threw bottles of beer at him in a desperate last attempt at self-defence. A
t that point robber wrenched the entire till off its base and fled down the stre
et, where he had stashed his coat under a parked car. Mr McCluskey’s 78-year-o
ld mother was in the back of the shop and ‘had the shock of her life’ when s
he came to see what all the commotion was about. Luckily, police were alerted by
 vigilant neighbours within seconds of the start of the robbery and intercepted 
the robber less than a mile away. He stole just £60 which was found in his pock
ets. The horrifying ordeal was caught on . CCTV camera and was the latest in thr
ee similar raids in three years at . the cornershop, which Mr McCluskey’s pare
nts opened in 1962. The businessman was so upset by the robbery that he attended
 Kingston Crown Court to see the young criminal jailed. Afterwards, a detective 
approached him and passed him the neatly written letter from the defendant. In i
t, Ogunbanwo said: ‘A hardworking . tax-payer like yourself deserves to be abl
e to make a decent living . without myself taking what is yours and has not busi
ness to do with me. ‘I . apologise for any distress I caused your mother or yo
urself and for any . further damaged caused. I genuinely had no intention to har
m you in any . way, but that is still no excuse for my action or for any fear I 
may . have caused. ‘My mother works in Tesco and I could only imagine how angr
y I would be if somebody did that to her.’ Big heart: Eamon McCluskey, picture
d at his shop in Wimbledon, has said he forgives the robber for what he did afte
r his letter . Speaking last night, Mr McCluskey, 51, said it took him two days 
to open the letter but he believes the apology is genuine. ‘When I came out of
 court a police . officer said he had written me a letter. It was early and I wa
s very . upset. I didn’t read it for a few days. Dear Mr Eamon McCluskey, . Be
fore I go any further please let me express my humblest apologies in regards to 
the robbery that took place at your store. A hardworking tax-payer like yourself
 deserves to be able to make a decent living without myself taking what is yours
 and has not business to do with me. I apologise for any distress I caused your 
mother or yourself and for any further damaged caused. I genuinely had no intent
ion to harm you in any way, but that is still no excuse for my action or for any
 fear I may have caused. My mother works in Tesco and I could only imagine how a
ngry I would be if somebody did that to her. Both my actions and behaviour towar
ds you were cruel and I sincerely apologise for that. Yours sincerely. Tobi Ogun
banwo . ‘Maybe he was remorseful about the robbery. He wanted to apologise for
 what he had done. I’m sure he meant it.’ Mr McCluskey said the 22-year-old 
robber had only been out of prison for 10 days after serving a shorter sentence 
for similar crimes. He described him as a ‘serial offender’ and said the cou
rt was told he had been committing serious crimes since the age of 18. Describin
g the robbery, the shopkeeper said he had recently installed panic buttons and a
 remote door lock but had become ‘blasé’. He said: ‘I saw the knife as so
on as he came in the door. 'He had a mask on his nose like a motorbike mask and 
he had a butcher’s knife raised in his right hand. ‘He came to the counter a
nd I went to the security door to get out but he got there before I did. 'I thou
ght "I have to get out of here or he will kill me or do me harm.’’ He said: 
‘I am glad it’s over now - time is a healer and everything is back to normal
 now.’ Ogunbanwo, known as Tobi, of Battersea, admitted four robberies and thr
ee attempted robberies across Merton and Wandsworth.