Universities are paying agencies millions to recruit overseas students who boost
 their coffers. Home students suffer as lectures are dumbed down to help those w
ith poor English, academics say. And some institutions enrol lucrative non-EU st
udents ‘regardless of their language skills’, it was claimed. A study by Tim
es Higher Education (THE) found 106 universities spent £86million recruiting ab
road in 2013 to 2014, or £1,767 per student – a 16.5 per cent increase on two
 years before. The Russell Group of top universities were some of the top spende
rs, with Sheffield, Glasgow and Cardiff each spending more than £6million from 
2011 to 2014. Coventry spent the most, paying out £10.2million in commission an
d VAT to recruit 5,634 students, according to data obtained under the Freedom of
 Information Act. However, a university spokesman said: ‘By error the figures 
. . . included substantial non-agent related costs, and therefore do not represe
nt the university’s spend.’ The University of Bedfordshire spent £9.5millio
n and Middlesex University spent £8.8million including VAT. Giving money to rec
ruitment agents is worthwhile for institutions because the average fee paid by a
 student from outside the EU last year was £11,289 – or £13,425 for laborato
ry-based courses. Fees for UK and EU students are capped at £9,000 a year. Liz 
Reisberg, formerly of the Centre for International Higher Education, at Boston C
ollege in the US, and now an independent consultant, told THE the situation was 
‘staggering’. Of 158 universities that gave data, all but 19 used agents to 
enrol non-EU students. At the 124 institutions that gave a breakdown of admissio
ns, there were 58,257 international students enrolled using agents in 2013-14. T
his month, a separate THE survey found more than a third of academics thought fo
reign undergraduates did not speak or write good English. One admitted to The Be
st University Workplace Survey that tutors ‘lower the level of classes so ever
yone can keep up – to the disadvantage of native speakers’. A Russell Group 
lecturer called the issue the sector’s ‘dirty little secret’. The average 
 fee paid by student from outside the EU last year was £11,289 a year to study
 in the UK . A respondent at a university in the Midlands said it tried ‘to at
tract as many international students as possible regardless of their language sk
ills.’ As the survey was anonymous, there is no suggestion the complaints came
 from institutions that pay agencies fees to recruit internationally. Nicola Dan
dridge, of Universities UK, which represents the sector, said: ‘International 
students are subject to numerous tests to ensure they meet high English language
 requirements.’ The group said official guidance puts an onus on universities 
to ensure agents act ‘ethically and responsibly’.