By . James Rush . Created: . 11:18 EST, 3 March 2014 . An investment banker who 
claims a man with the same name stood in for him at his own wedding has failed i
n his attempt to avoid a big money divorce suit. Former top-earning UBS banker A
mit Goyal, 36, told a judge his headhunter wife Ankita 'married another Amit Goy
al' at a ceremony at a four star hotel. He said he was relaxing at home six hour
s away while the service was taking place. Amit Goyal (left), 36, told a judge h
is headhunter wife Ankita (right) 'married another Amit Goyal' at a ceremony at 
a four star hotel . The high-flying city couple, who lived at Canary Wharf, Lond
on, met on Indian dating site Shaadi.com. They were married on September 15, 200
3, in the Indian city of Meerut - but Mr Goyal insists he was 'not present at th
e ceremony'. He claimed his 33-year-old wife could neither divorce him, nor clai
m any financial support, because they were never married in the first place. How
ever, Judge Mark Everall QC granted Mrs Goyal a decree nisi last year after desc
ribing her husband as an 'unreliable' witness and ruling that 'there was a valid
 marriage between the couple'. Challenging that decision at the Court of Appeal,
 Mr Goyal pointed to a mysterious thumb print on his marriage certificate - and 
an absence of wedding photos - in a bid prove himself a bachelor. In his judgeme
nt, Judge Everall also said that Mr Goyal was £300,000 in debt - despite earnin
g £185,000-a-year, plus bonuses, before he was made redundant. The Hotel Samrat
 Heavens, in the Indian city of Meerut, where the marriage between Ankita Goyal 
and Amit Goyal took place . His complaints were thrown out by the judge, who sai
d he had 'no prospect' of blocking his wife's divorce petition. Mr Goyal met his
 wife on the Indian matrimonial website in 2003. He had then been accepted to st
udy at the 'very prestigious' INSEAD business school in Paris, having worked in 
London since 2002, but agreed to meet his prospective bride back in his homeland
. The pair became engaged three days after they met and a wedding was fixed for 
the following month with the consent of Mrs Goyal’s senior army officer father
. Speaking after the hearing, Mrs Goyal said she was 'very happy' at the outcome
 which would have 'massive implications' for her future . 'Mrs Goyal and her par
ents were happy to go along with the plan. Mr Goyal was a well-educated young ma
n with evidently good prospects in the well-paid world of international finance,
' Judge Everall said in his ruling. He flew to New Delhi and his fiancee’s fam
ily arranged a 'short marriage ceremony', in advance of the full festivities, in
 order to speed along her French visa application prior to the couple’s flight
 to Europe. However, the banker asserted that his wife tied the knot with an imp
oster at Meerut’s luxury Hotel Samrat Heavens, claiming that he had been six h
ours’ away in his home town, Bathinda, on the morning of the nuptials. 'His ca
se is that Mrs Goyal and he were not married on September 15, 2003; he was not p
resent at any ceremony that may have taken place on that day. His case is that s
he married another man that day,' Judge Everall explained. Mr Goyal said this me
ant his subsequent 'marriage', celebrated just three days later, was invalid - e
ven though the groom’s name on the wedding certificate for the previous ceremo
ny matched his own. The pair moved to France and then the UK, before their daugh
ter, now six, was born in 2007. But their relationship 'irretrievably broke down
' and Mrs Goyal moved out of their Docklands home in 2011. Mr Goyal claimed that
 he had 'not read the certificate carefully enough' in 2003 and that the first t
ime he noticed the discrepancies in the dates was more than a year after the rel
ationship ended. Judge Everall heard expert evidence that a photograph, supposed
ly depicting the groom on the marriage certificate, was not of Mr Goyal, and a t
humb print on the document, which was purportedly his, belonged to someone else.
 The expert also highlighted a number of 'oddities' about the registration of th
e marriage. 'Standing back and having regard to . all the evidence and Judge Eve
rall’s reasoning, I do not detect that he . had any real difficulty in arrivin
g at his conclusion. Indeed, . having regard to his finding that Mr Goyal’s ev
idence pointed to him . being unreliable, it seems to me that the conclusion to 
which he came . was, in reality, the only one which was open to him' - Lord Just
ice Kitchin . Nonetheless, the judge said that 'the overwhelming probability on 
all the evidence is that Mrs Goyal did not marry, and did not intend to marry, a
 different Amit Goyal on 15th September, 2003. 'Why should she do so? Why should
 she do this on September 15 and then marry Mr Goyal on September 18 and fly wit
h him to France?' the judge asked. Mr Goyal was a 'highly educated and intellige
nt man' who had worked for Barclays, Deutsche Bank and UBS and who was 'precise 
and careful'. But the judge said of him: 'I did not find him a satisfactory witn
ess'. Rejecting his claim that he did not check the marriage papers until long a
fter the split, the judge said his evidence about that was 'unconvincing and imp
lausible'. 'I find there was a valid marriage between Mrs Goyal and Mr Goyal on 
September 15, 2003, in Meerut, India,' the judge concluded, before formally endi
ng their union. On appeal, Mr Goyal argued in person that it 'simply was not pos
sible' that he could have made the ceremony in time, because he was in Bathinda 
at 9am on the day of the wedding. Pointing to the lack of wedding snaps, he said
: 'Marriage is the one of the most sacred things in the Hindu religion. If you s
ay to someone there is a marriage without photographs, it simply does not add up
.' But Lord Justice Kitchin said: 'Standing back and having regard to all the ev
idence and Judge Everall’s reasoning, I do not detect that he had any real dif
ficulty in arriving at his conclusion. 'Indeed, having regard to his finding tha
t Mr Goyal’s evidence pointed to him being unreliable, it seems to me that the
 conclusion to which he came was, in reality, the only one which was open to him
.' The judge concluded: 'I’m satisfied there is no prospect of success in this
 application. It must therefore be dismissed.' Speaking after the hearing, Mrs G
oyal said she was 'very happy' at the outcome which would have 'massive implicat
ions' for her future.