Sri Lanka's police have arrested 37 nationals, turned back by Australian authori
ties on the high seas after attempting to seek asylum. Superintendent Ajith Roha
na said Australia's coastguard intercepted the trawler carrying the Sri Lankans 
near the Indonesian coast, before handing the asylum-seekers over to Sri Lanka's
 navy on Thursday. 'The boat left Sri Lanka on November 1,' Rohana said, adding 
that six children were among the passengers. 37 asylum-seekers whose boat was tu
rned back by Australia after being intercepted in Indonesian waters this week, h
ave been arrested by Sri Lanka's police . 'Investigations are being conducted by
 the anti-people smuggling unit of the CID (Criminal Investigation Department),'
 Rohana said. 'They are being held in custody, but will be taken before a magist
rate shortly.' The asylum-seekers are the first group to be turned back by the A
ustralian Navy since July, when a boat with 41 Sri-Lankan nationals was intercep
ted west of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Sri Lanka has since charged them with i
llegally leaving the country and their cases are due to be taken up in court nex
t May. Sri Lankan asylum seekers  sent back by Australia in July cover their fac
es as they wait to enter a magistrate's court in the southern port district of G
alle  Sri Lanka has charged them with leaving the country illegally and said tho
se found guilty would face 'rigorous imprisonment.' PM Tony Abbott came to power
 in September last year vowing to stop asylum-seekers undertaking dangerous voya
ges on rickety boats to reach Australia. As part of its hard-line border protect
ion policy, Australia has since gifted two former customs vessels to Sri Lanka t
o help its navy stop boats leaving the island's shores. Australia faces internat
ional criticism over its treatment of boat people, who are denied resettlement i
n Australia and sent to camps in Papua New Guinea and the Pacific state of Nauru
. Asylum seekers from Sri Lanka hold up signs on a ship in Bintan island, Riau p
rovince July 10, 2011 . Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this ar
ticle.