CNN senior international correspondent Nick Paton Walsh has won an Emmy award fo
r outstanding writing for his reports filed from Syria and Afghanistan. The awar
d-winning reports were "Aleppo Airstrikes," "Aleppo: Old City Fight," and "Afgha
n Women Self-Immolation." In its submission to the Annual News and Documentary E
mmy Awards, CNN highlighted Paton Walsh's "poetic writing," saying it contrasted
 "with the sobering environments from which his stories are usually drawn." "His
 reports punch through the daily accounts of wounded and dead, and give us a fre
sh way to see the grinding pitilessness of war, and its quirky inconsistencies,"
 the broadcaster said. "Aleppo Airstrikes" is the account of indiscriminate shel
ling in the Syrian city of Aleppo. Walsh's piece to camera sees him crouching as
 a government bomber jet flies above. "It's that sound that terrifies ordinary r
esidents of Aleppo daily," he says. Of the lone infant who survives the strike, 
Paton Walsh observes: "A year old, he was born into Syria's bloody revolution, a
nd may yet survive it still." In "Aleppo: Old City Fight," Paton Walsh goes righ
t inside the fight for the historic old city. His report focuses on the improvis
ed nature of the battle, with "pot-shots at nothing in particular" and what it c
ould mean for the wider conflict. CNN said Paton Walsh's war reporting was "comp
lemented by his sensitive stories about the plight of women in the developing wo
rld." In "Afghan Women Self-Immolation," the correspondent reports on an epidemi
c of self-immolation among young married women in Herat. The women take the dras
tic measure as a form of protest against the abuse they suffer at the hands of t
heir husbands or in-laws. CNN said Paton Walsh's "delicate writing has a reveren
tial tone, bestowing upon these sad burn victims in Herat the respect they seek.
" Beirut-based Paton Walsh has worked for CNN since 2011, focusing on the Middle
 East, Afghanistan and surrounding region. He topped five other contenders to ta
ke home the award for outstanding writing at the awards ceremony, which was held
 in New York, Tuesday. More recently, Paton Walsh has reported from scenes of co
nflict in Egypt and Turkey and from Dagestan, where he secured an interview with
 the parents of the alleged Boston bombers. CNN's Anderson Cooper 360 also won a
n Emmy, for Outstanding News Discussion and Analysis for "Kids On Race: The Hidd
en Picture," while CNN's 2012 U.S. election night coverage saw it honored with a
n Emmy for "Outstanding Live Coverage of a Current News Story -- Long Form." Pat
on Walsh's previous awards include the British Press Awards' Young Journalist of
 the Year in 2000 and Amnesty International's Gaby Rado Award (2006) for a repor
ter at the start of their career for his work in the former Soviet Union. He als
o won Amnesty's television award for his work in Sri Lanka in 2010, while he was
 working for British broadcaster Channel 4 News. Read more from Nick Paton Walsh
: . Taliban tightens grip on Afghan schools . Baby survives as family dies in Sy
rian onslaught . Afghan-army style justice fails to win over locals . A sniper's
 bullet, a dying child, a family's desperation . Heart-rending choices in Syrian
 warzone .