By . Adam Shergold . PUBLISHED: . 14:39 EST, 5 November 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 07
:18 EST, 6 November 2012 . It's usually a peaceful, very English county town - b
ut tonight Lewes in East Sussex is aflame with its annual Bonfire Night celebrat
ions. Tens of thousands lined the streets in the small market town to watch the 
fiery procession, which traces its roots to the 16th century reign of Mary I and
 the Guy Fawkes Gunpowder Plot of 1605. It is just one of many November 5 gather
ings up and down the country, with the night sky illuminated by colourful pyrote
chnics. While some will strike lucky with the weather, others won't be so fortun
ate as their fireworks displays are spoilt by torrential rain. Temperatures are 
expected to plummet close to freezing, making this the coldest Bonfire Night in 
14 years. Scroll down for video . March of the flaming crosses: Lewes residents 
lined the streets in their hundreds to watch the procession of 17 flaming crosse
s to represent the Protestant martyrs burnt at the stake in the town in the 16th
 century . Spectacular show: Participants in the parade hold flaming torches to 
light up the chilly night air. Forecasters said tonight will be the coldest Nove
mber 5 for over a decade . Religious connection: The flame procession in Lewes h
as its roots in the 16th century. In previous years, 80,000 people have lined th
e streets to watch as many as 3,000 marchers brandishing torches . All ages: You
ng participants in the festivities, which also link to the infamous Guy Fawkes G
unpowder Plot against the Houses of Parliament in 1605 . Step back in time: The 
shops and buildings on the main streets of Lewes may have changed, but this is o
ne annual tradition that holds strong . Showpiece: Crowds and marchers gathered 
around the Lewes war memorial to light crosses. An effigy of Guy Fawkes, who die
d in 1606 after an unsuccessful attempt to blow up Parliament, is also burnt . T
he procession, organised annually by six local societies, traces its roots to th
e 16th century and marks a tumultuous time in English history. A key part of the
 parade is seventeen flaming crosses, one for each of the Protestant martyrs bur
nt at the stake in the town between 1555 and 1557 as part of the Marian Prosecut
ions. The purge was initiated by the Roman Catholic monarch Queen Mary, who reig
ned between 1553 and 1558, and passed strict anti-Protestant legislation against
 anyone guilty of heresy against the Pope. Smoky: This marcher seemed to be crea
ting his own trail of thick red smoke as he made his way through the streets of 
Lewes . Ritual: Crowds cluster round as dozens of marchers with burning torches 
perform a ceremony . Burn him! The effigy of Guy Fawkes is carried through the s
treets to be set alight . Spooky: Halloween may have been last week but there we
re still plenty of scary characters in the parade . At least three hundred were 
martyred in just five years - many meeting a fiery end on the stake and others h
ung, drawn and quartered. It is just a part of a number of parades and displays 
of pyrotechnics in the town - which can attract as many as 80,000 despite the pl
ace only having a population of 16,000. An effigy of Guy Fawkes, who died in 160
6 a year after an unsuccessful plot to blow up the Houses of Parliament with Gun
powder. The Lewes event has previously courted controversy - in 2001, an effigy 
of Osama Bin Laden attracted national attention, as did the 2003 choice of a gyp
sy caravan. A fiery history: The seventeen flaming crosses in the parade represe
nt the 17 martyrs who were burnt at the stake in Lewes as part of the Marian per
secutions against Protestants in the reign of Mary I . History lesson: The Lewes
 Bonfire Night celebrations mark, in part, the Marian Persecutions of 1555-1557,
 a purge of Protestant religious reformers during the reign of Roman Catholic mo
narch Mary I. Heresy against the Catholic faith was punishable by death, with so
me burnt at the stake, as in Lewes, and other hung, drawn and quartered . While 
the flames remained alight in Lewes, others in the country saw their Bonfire Nig
ht pyrotechnics washed out by heavy rain. A number of fireworks displays were ca
ncelled after heavy deluges of rain caused flash flooding in Dorset, Devon, Some
rset and Wiltshire the worst affected. It follows the cancellation of a number o
f large displays over the weekend, including one in Newham, East London and in t
he Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire. In all, the Environment Agency issued seven 
flood warning in England and Wales on Monday morning, covering areas of the Sout
h-West, South-East, East Anglia, the Midlands and Wales.There were also 53 flood
 alerts in operation .In Carmarthenshire, nine adults and six children had to be
 rescued from a caravan park as flood waters rose on Sunday evening. The Mid and
 West Wales fire and rescue service used a boat as part of their operation at th
e Pendine Caravan Park. Flaming! Two of the marchers taking part in the annual B
onfire Night celebrations in Lewes, the county town of East Sussex, this evening
. Dressed in vivid, blood-red costumes and brandishing burning torches, they are
 participating in an event which can trace its origins to the Gunpowder Plot of 
1605 and the burning of 17 martyrs at the stake in the town in the period 1555-1
557 . Clear message: Preparations in Lewes have been underway all weekend, with 
banners hung above the streets followed by the procession . Bournemouth saw the 
most rainfall in the UK, with 30mm falling in just 24 hours from 5pm on Saturday
. The Dorset town would usually expect to receive 100mm of rain in the entire mo
nth of November. In Essex, the River Roding burst its banks after a severe downp
our, while much of the Westcountry saw water levels rise. But in the Lake Distri
ct, early risers were treated to a spectacular show of nature as fog shrouded th
e water and trees and snow glistened on the higher peaks. Dwarfed: Walkers on La
trigg early on Monday morning appear so insignificant against this stunning back
drop - though their view of Derwentwater and the other lakes beneath was totally
 obscured by mist . Meanwhile, Robbie Williams took the . stage in front of thou
sands of shoppers to switch on Oxford Street's . Christmas lights on Monday even
ing. He was joined by Leona Lewis and . boyband Lawson to turn on the 300,000 li
ghtbulbs which make up this . year's display on the popular London shopping stre
et. Grand switch-on: Thousands braved freezing conditions to cram Oxford Street 
as Robbie Williams turned on the Christmas lights on Monday evening . It's that 
time of year again: A close-up of some of the Christmas lights suspended above O
xford Street . Press the button: Robbie Williams is joined by competition winner
s to switch on the Oxford Street lights . VIDEO: Spectacular! Torchbearers light
 up Lewes in anti-papist parade .