Former federal MP Craig Thomson has been fined $25,000 for stealing union funds 
to pay for prostitutes but has avoided going to jail. Thomson, 50, was convicted
 of 13 counts of theft following cash withdrawals he made from a bank account be
longing to the Health Services Union between 2003 and 2007 when he was the union
's national secretary. He spent around $5000 of HSU members' fees on escorts and
 sex workers and lavish meals. In sentencing Thomson on Wednesday, Victorian Cou
nty Court Judge Carolyn Douglas said his spending had been indulgent and constit
uted a significant breach of trust. Former federal MP Craig Thomson has been fin
ed $25,000 for stealing union funds to pay for prostitutes but has avoided going
 to jail . She rejected a submission by Thomson's defence barrister Greg James t
hat the offending was the result of 'the frailties of a man away from home'. One
 of the charges arose from spending on sexual services while he was at home, and
 one related to a $400 lunch with his wife that included a $200 bottle of wine. 
'The gravity of the offending is the gross breach of trust involved,' Judge Doug
las said. 'The seriousness is reflected in the continued confidence, or arroganc
e, of Mr Thomson in having no regard for the trust placed in him.' She said it w
as not the concern of the court that he engaged sex workers, but it was the cour
t's concern he was using union members' money to do so. Thomson had appealed aga
inst both his 12-month jail sentence and conviction imposed by a Melbourne Magis
trate earlier this year . Thomson had appealed against both his 12-month jail se
ntence and conviction imposed by a Melbourne Magistrate earlier this year. On Mo
nday, he was acquitted of 49 charges of obtaining financial advantage by decepti
on. Judge Douglas said it was regrettable the fraud charges had not been framed 
correctly and reiterated she would be sentencing on the theft charges only. She 
said the amount stolen was relatively small but Thomson's behaviour was nonethel
ess appalling. 'He is greedy,' Judge Douglas said. Judge Carolyn Douglas said it
 was regrettable the fraud charges had not been framed correctly and reiterated 
she would be sentencing on the theft charges only . During submissions on Wednes
day morning Judge Douglas indicated she was considering a fine instead of jail t
ime, but prosecutor Lesley Taylor QC called for a prison sentence, saying anythi
ng less would be manifestly inadequate. 'The moral culpability of Mr Thomson is 
extremely high,' Ms Taylor said. 'There is not one skerrick of remorse that Mr T
homson has demonstrated.' Mr James said Thomson's theft of $5000 did not warrant
 jail time and he had been penalised already. Mr James said media coverage of Th
omson's legal battle had been 'extensive and intensive' and so intrusive Thomson
 and his wife had been unable to leave their home. Thomson has had to take out a
 $300,000 mortgage and sell superannuation assets to fund his defence against th
e charges, Mr James said. Thomson has three months to pay the $25,000 fine and m
ust also pay compensation of $5650.