Like a wounded animal lashing out in fury, ISIS is betraying hints of desperatio
n in its latest video, which purportedly shows the aftermath of the beheading of
 U.S. hostage Peter Kassig, analysts said Sunday. And if there's news worse than
 the apparent brutal death of Kassig, it's that we should expect even more vicio
us videos to come from the group, also known by the acronym ISIL, said Haras Raf
iq of the Quiliam Foundation, an anti-extremist think tank. "As we see the U.S. 
and the coalition making gains against ISIL, we will find that they try and show
 that they are still strong, try and show that they are just as barbaric as they
 have been, and unfortunately one of the things we'll see is that the videos wil
l become more and more barbaric," he said. "I think it's a sign of desperation,"
 he said. "I think it's a sign that they know and feel they are under attack, th
ey're under siege and they're struggling." The video, released online Sunday, sh
ows the aftermath of a beheading, in which the victim is not clearly recognizabl
e. The White House confirmed that the video showed Kassig. Kassig, 26, who conve
rted to Islam in captivity, also went by the name Abdul-Rahman Kassig. He went t
o the Middle East as a U.S. soldier and returned as a medical worker, feeling co
mpelled to help victims of war. The video does show -- in gruesome detail -- the
 beheadings of what the group claims are pilots for the Syrian government, which
 is also battling ISIS forces. "It can't be said enough," said CNN's Nic Roberts
on. "This is the most barbaric they've done so far." The carefully produced vide
o is clearly "a prize piece of propaganda for them," Robertson says. It also dif
fers from others produced by ISIS. It doesn't feature a Western hostage dressed 
in orange speaking to the camera before his death. Nor does it name the group's 
next victim. It is likely in part meant to scare Syrians and Iraqis into obeying
 ISIS' orders when it comes calling, said Rafiq and retired U.S. Army Lt. Col. J
oe Ruffini, a counterterrorism expert. "What ISIS is telling them is, 'When we c
ome in and tell you to do what we tell you, you know what the consequences are i
f you say no,'" Ruffini said. But it also comes at a time when the United States
 and its anti-ISIS allies are claiming their airstrikes and support for ground f
orces fighting the group are beginning to slowly turn the tide, said retired U.S
. Maj. Gen. James "Spider" Marks. Has ISIS peaked? Terror group suffers setbacks
 in Iraq . It also comes during a visit to Iraq by the chairman of the Joint Chi
efs of Staff, Gen. Martin Dempsey. "Clearly there are no coincidences," Marks to
ld CNN on Sunday. "This is timed very specifically to those activities by the co
alition and, I would say, the results of those activities." Since beginning airs
trikes in August, U.S. officials have touted successes in disrupting ISIS commun
ications and logistics, slowing its advances and forcing fighters to disperse in
to smaller formations. Last week, President Barack Obama said the fight was ente
ring a new phase that would rely heavily on Iraqi ground troops and other local 
fighters. More recently, U.S. officials have suggested more openness to a role f
or U.S. ground forces in the fight. In testimony to the House Armed Services Com
mittee on Thursday, Dempsey said commanders are "certainly considering" the pros
pect that U.S. forces might be needed to retake the Iraqi city of Mosul, current
ly held by ISIS. In Sunday's video, the narrator taunted Obama to do just that. 
Hostages tortured before beheadings .