(CNN) -- Sheryl Sandberg wants young girls to "ban bossy," but for those of us s
oon-to-graduate, just-graduated and will-I-ever-graduate ladies just entering th
e working world, there's another word that's even more toxic. That word is "push
y." At least, that's what my Lean In Circle thinks. A new book by Sandberg, "Lea
n In: For Graduates," targets women like us, but we were already paying attentio
n. My Circle is all 20-somethings with dreams of media industry success. We want
ed our group to exist as a third-wave feminist answer to boys clubs, with their 
oak-paneled rooms and clouds of cigar smoke. We share job announcements, work di
lemmas and interviewing tips and tricks. A guy recently asked me, "Lean In Circl
e -- is that, like, a book club?" Sort of. Not quite. According to Sandberg's Le
an In Foundation, 14,000 Lean In Circles meet regularly around the globe, and we
 don't just reread "Lean In" over mimosas. Lean In Circles were conceived as "sm
all peer groups that allow you to learn and share in an atmosphere of confidenti
ality and trust." The Washington Post described the ethos as "Alcoholics Anonymo
us fused with Girl Scouts," and I have yet to find a more accurate depiction of 
my particular Circle environment. And so we formed, and rallied around our Circl
e mission: to sit at the table and push back against "pushy" to find our first j
obs. 'Wait your turn' My mom was one of many who cautioned their daughters with 
the same advice: Wait your turn, don't be pushy. But when I was 22, still in col
lege, interning at a magazine in New York City and illegally subletting a run-do
wn room, that advice just wasn't cutting it anymore. I was one semester away fro
m graduation and the real world, and I was dreading it. One of my internship sup
ervisors jokingly introduced me to a colleague: "This is Julia Carpenter, and sh
e is terrified that she will graduate without a job." It was true. Many of my pe
ers moved back home with their parents to wait out this horrific economy, and un
equivocally, they were miserable. Many of my friends in journalism moved to citi
es like New York or San Francisco and waited months for a job. Some worked multi
ple part-time jobs to make ends meet, and every day without a lead meant more ho
pe slipping away. When I was reading "Lean In" within the mouse-ridden confines 
of my apartment, Sandberg's words stoked the long-squelched dreams that had alwa
ys hovered in the top pages of my journals. As an English major and a journalism
 student, many of the feminist tenets in "Lean In" weren't new to me, but they a
lso weren't applicable to me yet. She urges women to find supportive significant
 others who will see a relationship as a partnership, not a trade-off. Many of h
er stories about the intersection of family planning, motherhood and careerdom d
idn't have much of an effect. Those were things I'd been reading about in women'
s studies textbooks for years, examples of how progressive society had helped wo
men out of the home and into the workplace and back. What was new to me was her 
practical application of these sometimes abstract concepts. For every lesson, Sa
ndberg had a story to share about boardroom drama at Facebook, Google and elsewh
ere. In my young life, I hadn't had any Peggy Olson moments in which men looked 
up my skirt in the office or openly critiqued me for being a woman in a college 
classroom. Instead, Sandberg's vivid depictions of workplace inequality -- of wo
men who were constantly overlooked for the promotion, of female executives too s
hy to raise their hands in team discussion -- resonated as examples of the gende
r bias traps still harming women's success. I had been passed on for projects be
cause of reasons like "Why would a girl be interested in politics?" and the word
 "bitch" had been thrown at me to end a conversation. Sandberg's examples provid
ed simple solutions: Speak with purpose. Sit at the table. Sandberg writes that 
many women struggle to be bold in workplace. In my case, it was in the world of 
job hunting. We fear that putting ourselves out there means we will be perceived
 as "pushy." No one wants to be called that dreaded word just as she's trying to
 get a job. I realized that not pushing hard enough for the job that I wanted wa
s even scarier than not having a job. I feared that I would be waiting in the wi
ngs, clutching my pages-long résumé and feeling insecure, as droves of con
fident, talented men dared to sit at the table. I knew to get that dream job, I 
was going to have to push forward and sit right beside those guys, just as Sandb
erg wrote. 'Is there a job there for me?' Closing that confidence gap isn't easy
, especially after a lifetime of "Wait your turn." I read that when Sandberg was
 job hunting -- honestly, more like "job picking" -- then-Google CEO Eric Schmid
t gave her some invaluable advice, which ultimately became my guidepost. "Only o
ne criterion matters when picking a job -- fast growth." In my own job hunt, in 
the midst of interviewing and applying, I found myself playing the same neurotic
 games many of my female peers have copped to: "Did they even get my application
?" "Oh my God, they hated my application" and of course, "Why did I even send in
 an application, I suck." On the other hand, men send in applications even if th
ey meet just some of the listed qualifications. "I've been really forward (almos
t to the point of being pushy?) in the last year," a member of our Lean In Circl
e told me. "But the only consequence there might've been for that is not getting
 a response to an application." Not all of Sandberg's advice resonated with my C
ircle. Business cards and job titles don't mean much to us, and unlike many of S
andberg's contemporaries, we've come up in a startup culture that eschews formal
ism. "A lot of my job search happened over beers, over shared criticisms, over s
ocial media interactions," said one member of my Circle. "If I said some of the 
suggested scripts she uses in the book, the person I was talking to would think 
I was a robot. When members of my Circle discuss job prospects -- which we're do
ing ever-more-frequently as members prep for graduation -- the first question we
 ask isn't "What's the position?" Instead, it's "What would you be doing?" The d
ay before I graduated from college, I received a job offer from the magazine whe
re I had interned while reading "Lean In." The job was awesome. I would be livin
g in a city I loved, working with amazing people and doing something I knew I wa
s good at. But my heart was still set on another opportunity. A member of my Cir
cle had referred me for a sweet spot on the Washington Post's digital engagement
 team, but after a few rounds of interviews I was still waiting for an answer. "
You just have to wait," people told me. My newly Sheryl-fied inner voice said ot
herwise. I called and explained the situation. "Is there a job there for me?" I 
remember saying. "We were going to offer you the job tomorrow," my now-boss said
. "So -- what are you thinking?" 'That's my girl' At a recent brunch with a coll
ege friend, she told me she's happy at her job, but looking for the next step, h
opefully a new gig that will allow her to travel and improve her skills. "I want
 to e-mail these giants in my field to introduce myself and ask about job openin
gs," she said. "But I don't want to. I don't want to impose. They're going to be
 like 'Who is this girl? Why is she e-mailing me?' And I know my male colleagues
 wouldn't think twice. They'd send that e-mail." I immediately made a mental not
e to add her to our Circle. I know my Circle members would say it's an ongoing s
truggle for women in the workplace, and you have to lean in bit by bit. They're 
right. If anything else, you need to do it to improve the quality of workplaces 
for other women, even on the days when the confidence gap thwarts your plans to 
proceed boldly. So even when I couldn't find a connection with Sandberg's discus
sion of work-life balance and motherhood or the buttoned-up culture of top tech 
executives, "Lean In" can't just be written off as a book for mid-level career w
omen. For me and my Circle -- all women new to our first job or still in college
 and looking for that first job -- Sandberg's simple suggestion to proceed boldl
y, empowered us to look at the job hunt and our workplace interactions. We're wa
ry of the gender gap not just in salary, but in how it shapes discussion and ass
ignment in our offices. Even in the early days of a new gig, we're committed to 
closing that confidence (and achievement) gap. That's something we can take away
 from the pages. That's why a Circle is more than just a book club. In the middl
e of a conference call at work last week, I jumped into the conversation. "I can
 explain this," I said, and launched into a short description of a project my te
am and I had been rolling out. "When you said 'I can explain this,' you actually
 leaned in," a female colleague said to me afterward. "You physically leaned in 
closer to the desk. I was like, 'That's my girl.'" How did you land your first j
ob? Share your experiences in the comments, on Twitter @CNNLiving or on CNN Livi
ng's Facebook page.