By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 08:22 EST, 10 February 2014 . | . UPDATE
D: . 14:12 EST, 10 February 2014 . An obsessed Game of Thrones fan has put on 10
lbs of pure muscle to transform himself into a hulking star of the show. Rene Ko
iter, 29, spent ten months training to perfectly resemble the imposing character
 Khal Drogo, leader of the Dothraki. Mr Koiter even employed a team of eight sta
ff to . help him with his professional transformation, so that he could look . j
ust like Khal - married to character Daenerys Targaryen. Scroll down for video .
 Obsessed Game of Thrones fan Rene Koiter has put on 10lbs of pure muscle to tra
nsform himself into a hulking star of the show . He decided to transform himself
 into his favourite character, leader of the Dothraki, Khal Drogo, and spent ten
 months training to perfectly resemble the imposing character . In order to beef
 up for his transformation, Mr Koiter attended a boot camp class three times a w
eek, and worked out at a gym during his lunch breaks and took long walks on his 
days off . When he first debuted his muscly new look at a staff party, the subse
quent video went viral amassing over a quarter million hits on YouTube. Since hi
s makeover to the character - played by Jason Momoa -  the graphic designer has
 gained a legion of female fans and has been bombarded with marriage proposals f
rom women online. Mr Koiter, from Lake Forest, California said: 'Honestly, I had
 no idea what the reaction would be towards my transformation. 'Many marriage pr
oposals have been flung at me. 'My joking response to these women is usually "Ca
n you eat a horse heart like Daenerys famously does in the TV series?" Mr Koiter
 was just an 'ordinary man' (left) before he decided to launch his transformatio
n. Now, (right) the graphic designer has gained a legion of female fans and has 
been bombarded with marriage proposals online . Khal Drogo is played by Jason Mo
moa. He even employed a team of eight staff to help him with his professional tr
ansformation, so that he could look just like Khal - married to character Daener
ys Targaryen . Mr Koiter said: 'Many marriage proposals have been flung at me. M
y joking response to these women is usually "Can you eat a horse heart like Daen
erys famously does in the TV series?"' Mr Koiter, 29, also completely changed hi
s diet to achieve the look - cutting out all sugars and simple carbohydrates . '
Imagine my surprise when they come back to me, saying they would eat two hearts 
for me. M'athchomaroon!  Hello! Hash yer dothrae chek? How are you? Asshekhqoyi
 vezhvena! Happy birthday! Es havazhaan! Get lost! And upon meeting an enemy: An
ha vazhak yeraan thirat - I will let you live . 'It's flattering of course but I
 worry that people are mixing up the fantasy from the reality. 'Nevertheless, I 
do enjoy that the public are entertained because of this.' Mr Koiter - who is al
ready fluent in five languages - also learnt Dothraki, Khal Drogo's fictional di
alect in the series for a complete makeover. In order to beef up for his transfo
rmation, Mr Koiter attended a boot camp class three times a week, and worked out
 at a gym during his lunch breaks and took long walks on his days off. He also t
ook afternoon bike rides in the Californian sunshine to perfect his Khal Drogo t
an. His rigorous training regime means he is now able to flip an 850lbs tyre, eq
uivalent in weight to the average horse. Mr Koiter pictured before his transform
ation. He enlisted the skills of a costume designer, make-up artist, hair stylis
t to create Khal Drogo's look . Mr Koiter - who is already fluent in five langua
ges - also learnt Dothraki, Khal Drogo's fictional dialect in the series for a c
omplete makeover . Mr Koiter also completely changed his diet. He said: 'I used 
to be a big cereal junkie - I would eat that for breakfast, lunch and dessert. B
ut no more. 'I had to quit all sugars and simple carbs to achieve this look. Now
 I eat things like veggies, fruits, eggs, oatmeal, chicken, lean beef, fish and 
protein shakes.' Rene enlisted the skills of a costume designer, make-up artist,
 hair stylist to create Khal Drogo's look. His rigorous training regime means he
 is now able to flip an 850lbs tyre, equivalent in weight to the average horse .
 He said: 'I spent months growing out my hair for extensions, pumping iron like 
a mad man and then mimicking his Dothraki speech and mannerisms' He said: 'Drogo
 was indeed a juggernaut of a character to bring to life. The whole process took
 almost ten months and what I'll say is that you really need a team of people to
 build him properly. 'I spent months growing out my hair for extensions, pumping
 iron like a mad man and then mimicking his Dothraki speech and mannerisms.' For
 his next project, Rene is considering transforming into another Game of Thrones
' character, Jon Snow played by Kit Harington in the series. The new series of G
ame of Thrones airs on 6 April 2014 and a 15-minute trailer for series 4 came ou
t last night.