Andy Lack, the chairman of NBC News, emailed employees on September 3 to dispute
 allegations that the news network hindered or tried to kill Ronan Farrow's repo
rting on Harvey Weinstein, the Hollywood mogul who has been accused by multiple 
women of sexual assault. 
  
 Dear Colleagues, 
  
 This is an unusual situation for a news division. In the last several days, que
stions surrounding how NBC News handled Ronan Farrow's investigation of Harvey W
einstein have resurfaced. The following pages lay out all the facts dispassionat
ely and in necessary detail -- from start to finish. If you have any remaining q
uestions, please don't hesitate to ask. 
  
 For the past nine months, it has been our belief that the 'story' here is about
 Harvey Weinstein's horrendous behavior and about the suffering and bravery of h
is victims, rather than a back-and-forth between a reporter and his producer and
 a news network. However, we've watched with disappointment as unfounded intimat
ions and accusations have traveled through media circles. 
  
 At NBC News, one of our primary goals is to produce outstanding investigative j
ournalism that stands up to intense scrutiny and has a meaningful impact on soci
ety. We had that goal very much in mind when we first assigned Ronan Farrow to l
ook into rumors in Hollywood about Harvey Weinstein, as many other news organiza
tions had done before us over the span of two decades. 
  
 We spent eight months pursuing the story but at the end of that time, NBC News 
-- like many others before us -- still did not have a single victim or witness w
illing to go on the record. (Rose McGowan -- the only woman Farrow interviewed w
ho was willing to be identified -- had refused to name Weinstein and then her la
wyer sent a cease-and-desist letter.) So we had nothing yet fit to broadcast. Bu
t Farrow did not agree with that standard. That's where we parted ways -- agreei
ng to his request to take his reporting to a print outlet that he said was ready
 to move forward immediately. 
  
 Seven weeks later, and five days after Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey broke the W
einstein story in The New York Times, Farrow published the first in a series of 
outstanding stories for The New Yorker, winning great acclaim and attention, all
 of which is well deserved. That story cited the following victims by name: Asia
 Argento, Mira Sorvino, Rosanna Arquette, Lucia Evans, Emma de Caunes, Jessica B
arth, and Sophie Dix. Not one of these seven women was included in the reporting
 Farrow presented while at NBC News. 
  
 We regret the deterioration of NBC's relationship with Ronan, and genuinely wis
h we had found a path to move forward together. That is why, in August of 2017, 
when Farrow objected to his editors' conclusion we convened an independent group
 of the most experienced investigative journalists in our organization to review
 his material with fresh eyes. We asked them -- tell us what, if anything, we ca
n broadcast. But their conclusion was unequivocal -- this story is not ready for
 air. (Further, they found several elements in Farrow's draft script which did n
ot hold up to scrutiny -- described in the accompanying document.) It was Farrow
's decision, in the midst of this process, to pursue the story elsewhere. 
  
 Had we refused his request, NBC might have ultimately broken the story, but we 
wondered then, and still wonder now, whether the brave women who spoke to him in
 print would have also sat before TV cameras and lights. If we had tried to hold
 him and nothing changed, we would have needlessly blocked him from disseminatin
g it via another forum. And that is why we agreed to let him go elsewhere. If so
me believe that decision a failure of our competitive instincts, so be it. But i
t was a decision undertaken honorably and with good intentions toward Farrow and
 his work. 
  
 Contrary to recent allegations, at no point did NBC obstruct Farrow's reporting
 or "kill" an interview. Immediately after Farrow had parted ways with us, he as
ked for NBC cameras to record another anonymous Weinstein victim. Farrow conduct
ed the interview but we declined the request for a crew because we believed film
ing another anonymous interview would not get us any closer to clearing the thre
shold to broadcast, and because he had already informed us he was pursuing the s
tory for another outlet. (The victim Farrow anonymously interviewed did not ulti
mately speak on the record for The New Yorker or The New York Times.) Furthermor
e, we were increasingly concerned that repeatedly asking victims to sit for anon
ymous interviews in front of television cameras on this subject matter was no lo
nger a productive approach. (For the record, the first television interview with
 a Weinstein victim aired on NBC News on October 9.) 
  
 Finally, a word on the baseless speculation that some interference by Harvey We
instein played a role in our decision-making. The accompanying document recounts
 every interaction NBC News executives and editors had with Weinstein and his at
torneys. It will surprise no one that they were dishonest in their dealings with
 us, often mischaracterizing our brief conversations. But in each instance, thei
r calls were either completely ignored or met with a boilerplate commitment to a
llow them to comment if and when something was ready for broadcast. None of this
 was kept secret from Farrow. None of it was any different from the calls we rec
eive on every other difficult story our investigative unit regularly breaks. And
 none of it played any role in our decision-making. 
  
 Our Investigative Unit, led by Rich Greenberg, is filled with the best journali
sts in the business doing a remarkable job. They consistently shepherd difficult
 stories onto the air and drive the daily news cycle. Over the past year-and-a-h
alf they have delivered an astounding 420 exclusive stories on politics, nationa
l security, business and technology and more. 
  
 As we get back to work this week, we will continue to pursue the toughest stori
es, in the most challenging circumstances, involving the most powerful people. A
nd we will keep doing it while upholding the journalistic standards that have be
en the backbone of this outstanding news organization. 
  
 Thank you for your great work this summer. 
  
 Andy ||||| Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data f
rom narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single d
omain or subdomain. ||||| Last week, in an interview with The New York Times, Ri
ch McHugh, a former producer at NBC News who worked closely with Mr. Farrow, acc
used the network’s news division of impeding the reporting of the Weinstein st
ory. He called NBC’s handling of the matter “a massive breach of journalisti
c ethics” and said unnamed higher-ups had ordered the cancellation of an inter
view with a Weinstein accuser in August of last year, effectively killing the in
vestigation. 
  
 Mr. Lack’s email was partly an attempt to defend the network against Mr. McHu
gh’s statements. In his message to NBC News employees, the chairman publicly d
efended the network’s handling of the Weinstein story for the first time. 
  
 “Contrary to recent allegations, at no point did NBC obstruct Farrow’s repo
rting or ‘kill’ an interview,” Mr. Lack wrote in the email. 
  
 The news executive went on to make the argument that Mr. Farrow’s reporting w
as not broadcast-ready last August, when he stopped working the Weinstein story 
for NBC. The main problem, he said, was the lack of on-the-record voices in the 
version of the story Mr. Farrow had prepared. 
  
 “We spent eight months pursuing the story but at the end of that time, NBC Ne
ws — like many others before us — still did not have a single victim or witn
ess willing to go on the record,” Mr. Lack wrote. |||||