(CNN Student News) -- October 23, 2013 . The U.S. economy leads off Wednesday's 
program, as we examine some economic indicators and hear how Americans think the
 economy is doing. After a report on the spread of wildfires in Australia, we co
nsider how an invasive species of fish is affecting some Atlantic Ocean ecosyste
ms. Plus, we explore a company's plan to let people invest in their favorite ath
letes. On this page you will find today's show Transcript, the Daily Curriculum,
 Maps pertaining to today's show, and a place for you to leave feedback. TRANSCR
IPT . Click here to access the transcript of today's CNN Student News program. P
lease note that there may be a delay between the time when the video is availabl
e and when the transcript is published. DAILY CURRICULUM . Click here for a prin
table version of the Daily Curriculum (PDF). Media Literacy Question of the Day:
 . What might be the pros and cons of using a news report to gauge the state of 
the national economy? How might such a report compare and contrast to one on you
r local economy? Key Concepts: Identify or explain these subjects you heard abou
t in today's show: . 1. economic indicator . 2. invasive species . 3. investment
 risk . Fast Facts: How well were you listening to today's program? 1. What diff
erent reports were released regarding the U.S. economy? How did Americans respon
d to a poll on the economy? 2. What weather conditions are conducive to widespre
ad wildfires in Australia? 3. Describe the "athlete investment" program describe
d in the report. Discussion Questions: . 1. What are some ways in which the nati
onal economy might have an impact on a local economy, and vice versa? How can yo
u tell how well your local economy is doing? What media would you use to find th
is information? 2. What factors do you think led to the population explosion of 
lionfish in the Atlantic Ocean? What unique challenges might exist when trying t
o control the population of an invasive species that lives in the ocean? 3. What
 might be the pros and cons of investing in a professional athlete, using the pr
ogram described in the show? What might be the benefits and drawbacks for the at
hlete? Would you consider investing in an athlete? If so, what information would
 you use to determine if an athlete is a good investment? If not, why not? CNN S
tudent News is created by a team of journalists and educators who consider the C
ommon Core State Standards, national standards in different subject areas, and s
tate standards when producing the show and curriculum. We hope you use our free 
daily materials along with the program, and we welcome your feedback on them. MA
PS . Download PDF maps related to today's show: . Australia . North America . Be
rmuda . FEEDBACK . We're looking for your feedback about CNN Student News. Pleas
e use this page to leave us comments about today's program, including what you t
hink about our stories and our resources. Also, feel free to tell us how you use
 them in your classroom. The educators on our staff will monitor this page and m
ay respond to your comments as well. Thank you for using CNN Student News! Click
 here to submit your Roll Call request.