President Trump is expected to announce that Wall Street financier Anthony Scara
mucci will be White House communications director, according to two sources fami
liar with the planning. 
  
 Trump has left the role open since Mike Dubke resigned in May, and the Presiden
t has vented frequently to his friends about the performance of his press operat
ion. 
  
 Trump's plans to appoint Scaramucci came as a surprise to Chief of Staff Reince
 Priebus, who found out after the plans had already been made. ||||| We've detec
ted that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to le
gacy Twitter? 
  
 Yes ||||| Breaking News Emails Get breaking news alerts and special reports. Th
e news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings. SUBSCRIBE 
  
 The Trump administration is expected to name former Trump transition team offic
ial Anthony Scaramucci as White House communications director, four sources in a
nd close to the White House told NBC News Thursday. 
  
 The news of the expected appointment was first reported by Axios. A White House
 official said the move is expected to be announced Friday. Scaramucci did not i
mmediately respond to a request for comment. 
  
 A different White House official described Scaramucci to NBC News as a "total p
rofessional" with the respect of President Donald Trump. Scaramucci was a suppor
ter of Trump's during the campaign, dealing with fundraising and appearing on ca
ble TV as a frequent defender of the president. 
  
 Anthony Scaramucci, Assistant to U.S. President-elect Donald Trump and Director
 of Public Liaison, attends the World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting on Jan
uary 17, 2017 in Davos, Switzerland. File Ruben Sprich / Reuters file 
  
 Prior to throwing his support behind Trump, Scaramucci was a Scott Walker and t
hen a Jeb Bush booster. 
  
 Scaramucci met with Trump and his daughter Ivanka in the Oval Office on Thursda
y where Trump offered him the job, a source with knowledge of the situation said
. The source said Trump has known Scaramucci for years and likes him. 
  
 "Comms is what Anthony does,” the source said. “It's how he built his busin
ess. The guy knows media. He's been a good advocate for the president." 
  
 White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer has technically been doing double duty 
as press secretary and communications director since the departure of communicat
ions director Mike Dubke, who resigned in May after just three months on the job
. Spicer has not responded to a request for comment. 
  
 Another source said Spicer is definitely staying on. The position was open so t
his is being seen as a bolstering of the staff, not a demotion for Spicer. |||||
 Anthony Scaramucci is finally heading to Washington. 
  
 The Long Island-born financier and loyalist to President Donald Trump was appoi
nted chief strategy officer of the Export-Import Bank last week — roughly five
 months after his first promised White House gig failed to materialize. 
  
 “Mr. Scaramucci’s main role is to assess how the Export-Import Bank can bet
ter capitalize upon opportunities to support American jobs by financing American
 exports,” a spokesperson for the bank said Tuesday. 
  
 It is Scaramucci’s third attempt to land a gig with the Trump administration.
 In January, Scaramucci, known in the hedge-fund crowd as “The Mooch,” was s
aid to have landed a role with the White House Office of Public Engagement, but 
the role disappeared after he sold his company, SkyBridge Capital, to foreign bu
yers. 
  
 Earlier this month, it was reported that Scaramucci was up for the role of amba
ssador to the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development. The job, whi
ch needs Senate approval and a move to Paris, may still be in play. 
  
 Scaramucci’s new role with the Ex-Im Bank, which was first reported by Politi
co, is not without irony. 
  
 While campaigning, Trump called the bank “excess baggage.” 
  
 But the president changed his tune in April, telling the Wall Street Journal th
at the bank is “a very good thing. And it actually makes money, it could make 
a lot of money.” 
  
 The bank, which has been called “corporate welfare” by other Republican cri
tics, provides financing for US exports when other, more traditional lenders may
 be unwilling to assume the risk. |||||