The BBC was last night accused of suppressing an interview that called for corpo
ration boss Rona Fairhead to resign over her £10,000-a-day second job at scanda
l-hit HSBC bank. It’s a new blow to Mrs Fairhead, chairman of the BBC Trust an
d a non-executive director of HSBC, who is facing growing calls to quit one of h
er high-profile jobs over claims of a conflict of interest. She is due to be que
stioned by MPs tomorrow after The Mail on Sunday revealed that she was paid £51
3,000 for just 50 days work at the troubled bank last year, vastly exceeding her
 £110,000 salary for what is supposed to be her main job overseeing the BBC. La
st month HSBC came under fire over allegations that its Swiss banking arm helped
 wealthy clients dodge millions of pounds of British taxes, and that it sought t
o influence media coverage. Silenced: Retired businessman Michael Mason-Mahon (r
ight) who said Rona Fairhead was not a fit and proper person to be chairwoman of
 the BBC Trust, will not be shown . Now an HSBC shareholder has claimed the BBC 
refused to broadcast an interview with him in which he declared that Mrs Fairhea
d was not a fit and proper person to be heading the Trust. Retired businessman M
ichael Mason-Mahon says he was invited to Broadcasting House in Central London t
o discuss the turmoil at HSBC in an on-the-record interview with a BBC business 
reporter on February 23. His interview failed to feature in the broadcaster’s 
coverage of the HSBC story that evening. He believes it was shelved because of h
is remarks questioning Mrs Fairhead’s fitness to run the Trust. He said: ‘I 
said during the interview I disagreed with her appointment as BBC Trust chairwom
an. ‘I couldn’t understand why a non-executive director who is there to prot
ect the shareholders ignored us when we told her on numerous occasions in the pa
st about illegal behaviour that was going on involving HSBC. ‘It’s my person
al belief she’s not a fit and proper person to be chairwoman of the BBC Trust.
 The HSBC item was shown, but my interview was not in it. I believe it may have 
been suppressed.’ Mr Mason-Mahon has attempted to obtain a copy of the intervi
ew but has been told that this would be against BBC policy. Mr Mason-Mahon is we
ll-known for his outbursts at the annual general meetings of big public companie
s. Last May he brought a lawsuit against HSBC’s North American arm after it wa
s fined £1.2 billion having been found guilty in 2012 of allowing Mexican drug 
cartels to launder money. Last week former BBC chairman Sir Christopher Bland ca
lled on Mrs Fairhead either to give up her post at HSBC or to resign from the Tr
ust. Tomorrow she is due to appear in her role as an HSBC Board member in front 
of the Commons public accounts committee, which has fiercely attacked tax-dodgin
g corporations. Last night the BBC declined to say why the interview with Mr Mas
on-Mahon was not broadcast and whether or not Mrs Fairhead – who is not suppos
ed to be involved in editorial decisions – was told about it. A spokesman poin
ted out that it was the BBC’s Panorama programme that originally broadcast the
 highly damaging allegations about HSBC’s Swiss banking arm and added: ‘Like
 every news organisation we don’t use every interview we conduct. 'It is simpl
y wrong to suggest that we would not broadcast an interview due to it criticisin
g someone associated with the BBC.’