By . Anna Edwards . PUBLISHED: . 11:42 EST, 29 November 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 15
:17 EST, 29 November 2013 . He's often lauded as one of the world's most sexiest
 men - but David Beckham has revealed a distinctly un-sexy memory. The retired f
ootballer has confessed to performing a sex act on himself while looking at cale
ndar of Welsh footballer Clayton Blackmore as part of his initiation into Manche
ster United's youth team. The 38-year-old recalled how his Class of '92 teammate
s forced him to perform an embarrassing sex act whilst staring at eighties Reds 
legend Clayton Blackmore. Scroll down for video . Beckham's teammates required h
im to perform an embarrassing sex act whilst staring at a Clayton Blackmore cale
ndar . Beckham revealed he had to look at Clayton Blackmore's calendar and do ce
rtain things to himself . The midfielder said he got the short-straw with his hu
miliation, revealing to the Metro: ‘One of mine was surprising! The Clayton Bl
ackmore!’ Recalling his teen horror, he said: ‘Everyone had an initiation th
at you had to go through on the youth team, that was one of the most uncomfortab
le ones!’ 'The fact that I had to look at Clayton Blackmore’s calendar and d
o certain things, while looking at Clayton Blackmore…’ Forced to recall the 
humiliating ceremony on camera for a documentary on his former team, called 'The
 Class of '92', he said: ‘I was embarrassed when I was saying it on camera let
 alone talking about it more. But it’s something that we all had to go through
. It was definitely something I wouldn’t like to go through again!' High jinks
: Beckham joined the Manchester United Youth Team in 1992 and became firm friend
s with the other players . The retired footballer is promoting a Manchester Unit
ed documentary covering the period from 1992, where he, Paul Scholes, Nicky Butt
, Ryan Giggs and Phil and Gary Neville were team-mates . Suppressing the memorie
s: Becks said he got the short-straw with his humiliation . David Beckham, who h
as four children with wife Victoria, says he would rather forget the ritual . Th
e retired footballer is promoting a Manchester United documentary covering the p
eriod from 1992, where he, Paul Scholes, Nicky Butt, Ryan Giggs and Phil and Gar
y Neville were team-mates. His confession follows a series of revelations,includ
ing that Sir Alex Ferguson was . like 'the godfather' of Manchester United becau
se of his totalitarian . approach to managing the club. He described the Reds' m
ost-decorated manager as the 'godfather - and not in a good way,' to BBC Breakfa
st. 'Not in a bad way [either] but we were all very scared of him.' The former U
nited midfielder admitted that players were 'scared' of the patriarch, renowned 
for his sharp Scottish tongue. The 38-year-old, who retired at the end of last s
eason, also said he blew his first big pay packet on a flashy BMW. 'My first thi
ng that I spent money on was a BMW. That was my first cheque from Adidas, and I 
just blew the whole thing in one go,' Beckham told the Christian O'Connell Break
fast Show on Absolute Radio. 'We started getting a little bit more money than we
 were in the youth team, you know, I went and blew it. I was still living in dig
s at the time, and I literally blew all my money on a BMW.'