(CNN) -- The California Assembly on Thursday passed a bill appropriating $20 mil
lion to kidnapping victim Jaycee Dugard to settle her claims against the state D
epartment of Corrections and Rehabilitation, according to the chief clerk's offi
ce. The bill passed on a 30-1 vote in the Senate and a 62-0 vote in the Assembly
, according to CNN affiliate KCRA. Corrections officials entered into the settle
ment with Dugard, the station said. Dugard vanished in 1991 at the age of 11. Sh
e was found in August 2009, living in a shed in the Antioch, California, backyar
d of Phillip Garrido, a registered sex offender who had been on parole since Jan
uary 1988. Investigators say Garrido fathered two children with Dugard during he
r captivity. He and his wife, Nancy, are charged with 29 felony counts in the ca
se. Both have pleaded not guilty. In a report issued in November, the state insp
ector general's office found the state Department of Corrections and Rehabilitat
ion failed to properly keep tabs on Garrido or properly supervise the officers a
ssigned to his case. "While it is true that Garrido's California parole was neve
r officially violated, our review shows that Garrido committed numerous parole v
iolations and that the department failed to properly supervise Garrido and misse
d numerous opportunities to discover his victims," the report said. Parole offic
ers failed to investigate utility wires running from Garrido's house toward the 
shed where Dugard was held, to check out the presence of a 12-year-old girl duri
ng a visit or to act on information the report said "clearly" showed Garrido had
 violated the terms of his release, the report said. Dugard, who is now 30, her 
mother and her daughters had filed a claim saying state corrections officials fa
iled to do their jobs, seeking psychological, physical and emotional damages, KC
RA said. The settlement process was "pretty much unprecedented," said Jeff Long,
 spokesman for Assemblyman Felipe Fuentes, who sponsored the bill. The language 
was inserted into a bill concerning claims against the state. Fuentes is chairma
n of the Assembly's Appropriations Committee, Long said. Every year as part of t
he budget process, the chair submits two bills for judgments against the state, 
Long said. It was decided that this would be the quickest way to get it through 
the Assembly, he said. Officials thought the state might have a case if it fough
t Dugard's claim, but it wasn't worth the case going to a jury, Long said. Becau
se the constitutional deadline for an approved state budget has passed and Calif
ornia is in a new fiscal year without a budget, no appropriations can be made wi
thout Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's consent. Schwarzenegger has to request the bi
ll be moved to his desk to sign it, Long said. Garrido was paroled in August 198
8 after serving 11 years of a federal kidnapping sentence. He also served a five
-year term in Nevada for rape charges. The November report from California Inspe
ctor-General David Shaw was limited to reviewing the actions of state parole off
icers in charge of monitoring Garrido from June 1999 until Dugard and her childr
en were discovered. But Garrido was under the supervision of federal parole offi
cers when authorities say he kidnapped Dugard in 1991, and they also "failed to 
detect Garrido's criminal conduct and his victims," the report says. Garrido was
 only "properly supervised" for 12 out of the 123 months he was under California
's supervision, "a failure rate of about 90 percent," Shaw told reporters in Nov
ember. CNN's Ashley Hayes and Rachel Brown contributed to this report.