By . Jennifer Smith for MailOnline . Worth a staggering £2.1million, the Bugatt
i Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse is no ordinary car. So when it comes to getting a p
olish, a quick once-over just won't do. After announcing that the world's most e
xpensive new car was going on sale, the London dealership displaying it spent £
3,000 making sure every inch of its lacquer coat was perfect. Scroll down for vi
deo . Two Topaz experts buffer the Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse worth £2
.1million in the Jack Barclay Showroom in Mayfair . The vehicle was shipped from
 Shanghai to the Jack Barclay showroom in Mayfair, west London, after being show
cased at events around the world. To give it a 'shake down' ahead of sale, they 
brought in Topaz Detailing to give its carbon fibre and polished aluminium body 
new finish. Experts spent more than eight hours forensically examining the car w
ith a microscope to pinpoint even the tiniest imperfection. Using an ultrasonic 
depth measurement gauge, they assessed the depth of each layer of the vehicle’
s paint, which is made up of primer, paint and lacquer. After studying the scans
 on a laptop, they then remove the scratches and impurities in a process known a
s paint correction, using electronic buffing tools. Using the finest grades of p
olish, they scanned and polished until all of the scratches and impurities in th
at section were removed before moving on to the next part. The car, which has a 
top speed of 255mph is one of the fastest in the world as well as being the pric
iest . The process begins by covering the car's wheels with protective plastic b
efore specialists get to work . The Topaz Detailing staff use paper tape to cove
r the vehicle's headlights and bonnet rim . The full Topaz Detailing treatment c
osts between £2,500 and £3,000 and can take up to eight hours . Using an ultra
sonic depth measurement gauge the experts assess the depth of each layer of pain
t on the car . The experts then study the images from the device to identify the
 tiniest of imperfections on the car's finish . After examining the car in small
 sections the analysts can identify how where to polish it without causing damag
e to its paint . Two of the Topaz Detailing experts examine images from the micr
oscope on a laptop before polishing the car . The service, which sometimes takes
 more than 60 hours, typically costs between £2,500 and £3,000 plus VAT, but i
s vital when dealing with a car worth more than £2 million. Derek Bennett, gene
ral manager of the the Jack Barclay showroom, said: 'I have never seen anything 
like it. For the price of the Topaz Detailing polish, you could put your car thr
ough a standard car wash 6,000 times . Two Honda Jazz 2004 models would cost les
s at £1,425 each on Autotrader . A Peugot 1.07 0.9l engine could be filled more
 than 75 times for the same amount . Two tickets on the Silver VIP Terrace at th
e 2015 F1 Monaco Grand Prix would cost less at £1,303 each . 'It is amazing wha
t they have done. We are absolutely delighted with what they have done. 'Jack Ba
rclay has a long and rich history in selling some of the most exotic and finest 
supercars in the world. 'For many of our customers perfection is the only goal. 
Everything associated with the car from the factory to the detailers meets exact
ing standards only achievable through carefully selected partners such as Topaz.
 'Our showroom is literally a motor show, everyday our cars must shine spotlessl
y and fit the vision our customers had when they first dreamt of supercar owners
hip. 'Attention to detail is a statement of intent, that we will deliver on our 
promise of being the finest Bugatti retailer in the world. 'Bugatti detailers po
lish and finish their cars by human eye, but Topaz use a digital scanner to seek
 out areas so microscopic that only the final polishing effect of these marginal
 gains can be appreciated as a whole once the car is complete.' While it may see
m like a lengthy process the cars at the showroom have to be at their best at al
l times, says manager Jack Barclay . The service is a 'must' for any car worth m
ore than £2million according to the Jack Barclay showroom . Once the tiny imper
fections are identified the experts can get to work buffering the carbon-fibre e
xterior of the car . The vehicle was brought to the UK after being showcased at 
car events all over the world . As good as new: Following the eight hour clean t
he car gleams in the windows of the London showroom . A manager at the Jack Barc
lay showroom, which is home to some of the most exquisite cars in the world, des
cribed the process as 'amazing' Mazin Naamo, director at Topaz Detailing said he
 was thrilled to have worked with the car. 'It really gives us a sense of achiev
ement to work with what is probably the most exclusive dealership in the world a
nd with one of the last Veyrons that may ever be made.' Mr Naamo described the c
ompany as cosmetic enhancement specialists for anyone who cares about the way th
eir car looks. 'Our service caters to everyone you don't have to have a Bugatti
. 'It is for people who are passionate about the way their cars look, paying fo
r them to look a certain way and maintain it. 'It's like consulting a specialist
 doctor - we're paint specialists and everything to do with the cosmetics of the
 car. We are cosmetic enhancement specialists, we know how to bring up the paint
 work on specialist materials to make it look brand new or better.' Mr Naamo add
ed the technologies used on the Bugatti were the company's 'secret'. 'Every buff
er pad has a different density and a different abrasion level. It also has a dif
ferent backing plate so the combinations that we have to work out in terms of ma
chine, pad and compound combination - you're talking hundreds of possibilities. 
'That's where our experience comes in, that's our secret.'