Seoul, South Korea (CNN)A man opposed to joint South Korean-U.S. military drills
 attacked the American ambassador in Seoul, slashing his face and arm as he was 
about to give a speech Thursday morning, authorities said. North Korea quickly c
alled the stabbing a "knife attack of justice" and said it reflected "anti-U.S. 
sentiment" in South Korea. Authorities have obtained an arrest warrant for the k
nifing suspect, Kim Ki-Jong, an official at Seoul Central District Court said Fr
iday. He was detained immediately after the attack, with authorities having time
 to formally arrest him or let him go. Kim, 55, who has a history of unpredictab
le behavior, could eventually be charged with attempted murder and other charges
. A police official, Yoon Myeong-seong, also told reporters that Kim had previou
sly visited North Korea seven times between 1999 and 2007, and that authorities 
were "intensively investigating" a possible connection between his visits to the
 reclusive state and this attack. The U.S. ambassador to South Korea, Mark Lippe
rt, was in stable condition after undergoing more than two hours of surgery, in 
which he got 80 stitches to his face. He will probably remain hospitalized for t
hree to four days, said Dr. Jung Nam-shik at Yonsei Severance Hospital. In 2010,
 Kim received a suspended two-year prison sentence for throwing a piece of concr
ete at a Japanese ambassador to South Korea, according to the Yonhap news agency
. The motive for his attack Thursday? He wanted an end to the South Korean-U.S. 
military drills to improve North-South relations, police said. The drills are he
ld annually despite predictably harsh criticism from North Korea. The North Kore
an government believes the attack is "just punishment for U.S. warmongers," acco
rding to its official news agency, KCNA. South Korean President Park Geun-hye, o
n the other hand, condemned it. "This incident is not only a physical attack on 
the U.S. ambassador," she said, "but an attack on the South Korea-U.S. alliance 
and it can never be tolerated." U.S. diplomats have been attacked, killed in pas
t . Lippert was attacked while attending an event organized by the Korean Counci
l for Reconciliation and Cooperation, which advocates peaceful reunification bet
ween the two Koreas. The U.S. Embassy did not request special security for the e
vent, Seoul police said. Three police officers were on duty at the building's en
trance, and 25 others were on standby. Kim sat down at a different table than Li
ppert, then got up and ran to the ambassador's right side yelling something that
 sounded like anti-American sentiments. "When the man jumped on the ambassador, 
I stood up and jumped on the man, and they both fell on the ground," a witness, 
Jang Yoon Seok, told CNN affiliate YTN. "Luckily I got on top of the man's back 
and could press him to the floor. Then others came to hold him on the floor." Ja
ng said he later saw the knife on the table. It had a wooden handle and did not 
look particularly sophisticated, he said. Seoul police said a knife, about 10 in
ches long, was used in the assault and the suspect brought it from home. Videos 
showed the suspect pinned on the floor, rolled into a blanket and carried out of
 the building. He was heard shouting, "The South Korea-U.S. military drills must
 stop." The drills began earlier this week. Explaining the joint South Korea-U.S
. military exercises . After the attack, Lippert -- clutching his right cheek an
d holding a bloodied arm -- was photographed hurrying out of the Sejong Cultural
 Institute in central Seoul. The cut to his face runs from his right cheekbone t
o his lower jaw and is about 4 inches long and about an inch deep, Dr. Jung said
. Fortunately, there was no damage to his facial nerve. Lippert also suffered fi
ve gashes in his left arm and hand, but he is not likely to have permanent damag
e to his arm function. "The ambassador was very calm. People around him were tak
en aback, but he was very calm," said Dr. John Linton. "He was speaking with his
 doctor on what to do. It was surprising." As the ambassador left and headed to 
the hospital, investigators arrived, hoping to figure out exactly what happened.
 While there are videos showing what happened at the event, none of them will be
 from closed-circuit surveillance cameras, said Yoon, the Seoul police chief. Th
e only such camera outside the building did help authorities determine exactly w
hen Lippert and Kim came in. Was the attack part of a larger plot? Did Kim have 
any help, implicit or explicit? Not if you ask him, according to the Seoul polic
e chief. "Kim insists that this was done by himself," Yoon said. "But police are
 still investigating if he acted alone and what his motive was." Park, South Kor
ea's President, told Lippert by phone that she was surprised and deeply troubled
 to hear about the attack -- an incident similar to one targeting her several ye
ars ago -- the Asian nation's Foreign Ministry said on its website. The South Ko
rean leader vowed that authorities will "take necessary measures ... with utmost
 seriousness and urgency" to get to the bottom of the latest attack. She also pr
omised to keep close ties with the United States "so that the incident would not
 have any negative implications on the (South Korean)-U.S. alliance,"  according
 to the ministry. For Park's American counterpart, President Barack Obama, the a
ttack is personal as well as political. That's because Lippert is a longtime fri
end and confidant, having been part of Obama's inner circle for years. Obama cal
led Lippert "to tell him that he and his wife Robyn are in his thoughts and pray
ers, and to wish him the very best for a speedy recovery," National Security Cou
ncil spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan said. Lippert has been close to Obama ever si
nce he arrived in the Senate in 2005. Lippert worked with Obama on the Senate Fo
reign Relations Committee and traveled the world with the then-senator as he gar
nered the foreign policy experience that helped pave the way for his presidentia
l campaign. When Obama declared he would run for president in the 2008 race, Lip
pert was by his side again, and was on the road with the candidate and ultimatel
y served as the chief foreign policy adviser for the Obama campaign. Obama nomin
ated Lippert to serve as ambassador to South Korea last year. Thursday afternoon
, Lippert tweeted that he was recuperating. "Doing well & in great spirits! Roby
n, Sejun, Grigsby & I - deeply moved by the support!" he tweeted, referring to h
is wife, his son and his dog. "Will be back ASAP to advance US-ROK alliance!" He
 then added in Korean, "Let's work together!" CNN's Judy Kwon, Paula Hancocks, A
lexandra Jaffe, Stephen Collinson, Barbara Starr, Jim Acosta and journalist Hyou
ngjoo Choi contributed to this report.