Google's Ad Preferences page shows you the profile Google has built up of your i
nterests - based on information gleaned from your visits to site's within Google
's advertising network . IT has been said that Google knows more about what you 
like than your own partner . Now the search giant has given a glimpse on just ho
w much information it has collected - and who thinks you are. But it seems the f
amed Google algorithms are far from infallible. And people taking advantage of t
he facility that allows the public to view what kind of consumer Google thinks t
hey are have been amused to find themselves listed with the wrong age and even s
ex. Nevertheless, the knowledge that Google works so hard to profile its 350m ac
count holders is bound to intensify the debate about privacy which flared up aga
in this week with the announcement that the company was going to start tracking 
users across all of its sites, including YouTube. The detailed personal 'profile
' sums up many of a user's interests, along with age and gender. Google builds a
 detailed profile by harvesting the history of its account holders' visits to si
tes in its advertising network. But your age and gender are decided by those of 
other Google users who have visited the sites you visit, leading to the mistakes
. 25 years out and the wrong gender. HmmmmPenny, LondonThis says I'm 65+ and mal
e... last time I checked I was 42 and female!Lu, Madrid, SpainIt seems I've aged
 20 years because I like home, gardening and cats. I may well turn into the mad 
cat lady in 20 years, but I'm not there yet! Sharon, Herts . One blogger from te
ch site Mashable found this week that Google's Ad Preferences page assume that s
he was middle-aged - and a man, simply because her interests included technology
 and computing. The profile page, called Ad Preferences, is hidden away inside a
 settings menu in Google Accounts, but can be accessed directly here. This sort 
of in-depth profiling raises alarm bells with privacy activists. 'Consumers have
 increasingly digital lives and they are developing an unfathomably large data t
rail every day,' says Rainey Reitman, activism director for privacy group Electr
onic Frontier Foundation. 'There has never been another time in history where pr
ivacy was under the kind of assault it is today.' You can opt out of the trackin
g, or manually edit your details. Google also  does not store information on co
ntroversial subjects such as pornography. The Ad preferences page came to public
 attention following a sweeping change to 'privacy policy' which comes into effe
ct on March 1, although the preferences page was launched some time ago. YouTube
 data, Gmail information and search data will all be used to build up ever more 
accurate advertising profiles and also the company claims it will make searches 
more personalised. The Mashable writer's interests meant that Google Ad Preferen
ces identified her, wrongly, as being both middle-aged and a man . In most cases
, though, the data is eerily accurate, bringing up a breakdown of interests, age
 and sex. The Advertising Preferences information that Google gathers . is sent 
out as a 'cookie' - a packet of information sent out by your . browser - wheneve
r you visit other Google partners, who then serve up 'relevant' adverts when you
 visit their sites. Users who are fearful of the amount of information Google ho
lds can block the profiling by disabling 'cookies' in their internet browser set
tings. Google says, 'We associate interests with your ads preferences based on t
he types of websites that you visit within the the Google Display Network.' 'For
 example, when you browse many gardening-related websites in the the Google Disp
lay Network, Google may associate a gardening preference with your cookie.' 'If 
the sites that you visit have a majority of female visitors, we may associate yo
ur cookie with the female demographic category.' Some users reported that Google
 had identified bizarre interests such as 'Sweets and Candy', and was duly servi
ng them adverts appropriate to that 'interest'. You can manually change your 'in
terests' from your Ad Preferences page - although you cannot, of course, stop Go
ogle from sending you adverts.