(CNN) -- In a bookstore, I saw a woman taking photograph after photograph of new
ly released titles that were arranged on a shelf. She was using her phone to tak
e the pictures. I didn't understand. Why would anyone want to take pictures of b
ooks? Then, at a restaurant, waiting for a table, I heard two men, also waiting,
 talking. One said he had just ended a frustrating day at the store he owned. "D
o they think I'm a showroom?" he said. He mentioned people who had come into his
 shop that day, had looked at the merchandise, had taken notes -- and then had l
eft. "Do they think I don't know what they're doing?" he said. It is a relativel
y new phenomenon. Among retail merchants -- owners of stores both small and larg
e -- it has a name: . "Showrooming." No one showrooms by choice. And it represen
ts a potential sea change in American life. Its implications are vast. As descri
bed in an article by reporter Amy Zimmerman in the Wall Street Journal, showroom
ing is "when shoppers come into a store to see a product in person, only to buy 
it from a rival online, frequently at a lower price." Say a merchant owns a reta
il store -- a brick-and-mortar store, on a city street. He or she hires staff, p
ays rent, writes checks for electricity and telephone service, pays for janitori
al work, pays real estate and sales taxes, invests heavily in merchandise. And h
opes against hope that customers will come in, look around and buy something. Th
is is how the retail sales business has always worked. But in recent years, as o
nline companies without a single physical store have risen to prominence, someth
ing new has occurred. People will come into stores, look around, stop at items t
hey particularly like -- and instead of carrying them to the cash register, will
 take photos of them, or type a description into their smartphones. Then, in man
y cases, they will go home, enter the product into a search engine and find some
 online-only merchant -- a merchant who has no real-life stores -- who is sellin
g the item for less money. A tap of the "Enter" key, a few keystrokes to provide
 credit card information, and the item -- the item the person has examined and l
iked in the brick-and-mortar store -- is on its way to the buyer's home. It's al
l so effortless. The online merchant wins. The purchaser wins. Who loses? You kn
ow the answer. The loser is the owner of that real-life store: the person who ha
s stocked the merchandise, hired the staff, paid to keep the store cool in summe
r and warm in winter, written the rent checks and the tax checks. It is no wonde
r merchants are feeling frustration and anger that their stores are being consid
ered as little more than showrooms by some shoppers -- showrooms displaying merc
handise that, if the people wandering the aisles go home and buy from an online 
vendor, will provide not a cent in revenue to the owner of the real store. Do th
e customers ever look into the eyes of the proprietor of the store and wonder if
 this new way is fair to him? As Brad Tuttle of Time magazine has written: . "Mo
st consumers don't really care how, or even if, a retailer makes money. All they
 care about is which one has the best products at the cheapest prices. The ideal
 situation is one in which they can inspect merchandise in person, and then buy 
it at the cheapest price without having to schlep it to and from the car, and wi
thout having to pay extra for delivery." What's the difference, you may ask? Why
 does this matter? It will matter when and if critical mass is reached, and onli
ne-only merchants, who don't have to underwrite the expense of having traditiona
l stores on city streets, reach dominance. Then, one by one, the stores that hav
e unwillingly become showrooms for the online merchants will fold up. And the Am
erican downtown-and-mall landscape will begin to look barren. A doomsday scenari
o? Perhaps. But "just browsing" has taken on a different meaning in the context 
of shoppers who go home and use their computers' browsers to find online retaile
rs who will undercut the conventional stores. Last weekend I was in central Ohio
 for the annual charity race we hold to raise cancer-research money in memory of
 my late friend Jack Roth. I asked his daughter, Maren, who owns a women's bouti
que called Rowe, whether she was familiar with the showrooming phenomenon. She s
aid she has seen it with her own eyes, in her own store. "If they tell you how m
uch they like an item, and take a picture of it and then leave the store and you
 never hear from them again, it's a pretty good indication that they may be goin
g home and looking for a better price online," she said. "And if they call the s
tore later and ask you to tell them the specific style name and number of the it
em -- then you really know. They're putting the merchandise they saw in your sto
re into a search engine." It's not just smaller merchants like Roth. Target, the
 retail-store giant, wrote a letter to its vendors this year that said, "What we
 aren't willing to do is let online-only retailers use our brick-and-mortar stor
es as a showroom for their products and undercut our prices without making inves
tments, as we do, to proudly display your brands." What all this will eventually
 do to old-style stores is anyone's guess. Perhaps they will be judged to have o
utlived their usefulness. In the meantime, merchants will continue to open their
 doors each morning in the hopes that the people who come in will really intend 
to buy something. There is a longstanding axiom that business owners are suppose
d to believe in: "The customer is always right." But in this emerging era in whi
ch people come into stores taking photos and making lists, with no intention to 
give the store owner their business, worried merchants can't be blamed if they l
ook around their shops and ask themselves: . Who, and what, is a customer? The o
pinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Bob Greene.