Photo Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 KILLEEN, Tex. — The Army specialist at Fort Hood who killed three and wounded
 16 of his fellow soldiers on Wednesday had an angry dispute over a leave reques
t shortly before the shooting rampage, a law enforcement official said Friday. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 After a meeting where he had sought a leave to attend to family matters, he was
 clearly agitated and disrespectful when his request was denied, said the offici
al, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to discuss the 
investigation. 
  
 Fort Hood officials and a spokesman for Army investigators declined to comment 
on Friday about the meeting and its role in the shooting, but they confirmed in 
an afternoon news conference that the specialist, Ivan Lopez, became angry with 
soldiers from his unit before the attack. Two of those he killed were in his uni
t, a transportation battalion of the 13th Sustainment Command. Officials stresse
d that they had still not established a clear motive. 
  
 But in an interview with a local Mississippi television station, Theodis Westbr
ook, of Smithdale, Miss., the father of Sgt. Jonathan Westbrook, who was wounded
 in the attack, said he was told that a soldier came to Fort Hood’s personnel 
office, where Sergeant Westbrook worked, to get a leave form. When one of the so
ldiers told the man to come back the next day to pick that form up, the man left
, then returned with a gun and opened fire. 
  
 Photo 
  
 “The first guy he shot right in front of my son was killed, and then he turne
d the gun towards Jonathan, aimed it, and fired,” Mr. Westbrook said. “I don
’t know how many times he fired, but he hit my son four times.” 
  
 The Army has said that Specialist Lopez, who ended his rampage by fatally shoot
ing himself, had been undergoing evaluation for post-traumatic stress disorder a
nd treatment for depression and anxiety. But the post commander, Lt. Gen. Mark A
. Milley, said on Friday that his “underlying medical conditions” were not a
 direct factor in the shootings. 
  
 “We believe that the immediate precipitating factor was more likely an escala
ting argument in his unit area,” General Milley said. 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Photo 
  
 On his Facebook page, Specialist Lopez expressed a variety of concerns — incl
uding outrage at Adam Lanza’s shooting rampage in Newtown, Conn., the fear he 
felt in a convoy in Iraq and, more recently, anger with Army bureaucracy. He arr
ived on base in February after being transferred from Fort Bliss in El Paso. It 
was unclear how his writing might help explain his increasingly troubled state o
f mind. 
  
 “Given that the alleged shooter is deceased, the possibility does exist that 
we may never know exactly why the alleged shooter did what he did,” said Chris
 Grey, a spokesman for the United States Army Criminal Investigation Command in 
Quantico, Va., the lead agency investigating the shooting. 
  
 Specialist Lopez’s father released a written statement, in Spanish, on Friday
 in which he suggested that mental illness must have played a role in his son’
s actions. “My son could not have been in his right mind,” said Ivan Lopez, 
the father. “This is not who he was.” 
  
 Photo 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 The statement, released in Guayanilla, P.R., where Specialist Lopez grew up and
 where his family still lives, said that the deaths of his mother and grandfathe
r, along with “the recent changes he experienced in his transfer to the base a
ffected his condition as a result of his experiences as a soldier.” He was div
orced from his first wife, who also lives in Puerto Rico with their two children
. His second wife and a child lived with him in Texas. 
  
 The troubled Facebook posts and comments Specialist Lopez made in the last two 
years — which are only visible to his friends on the site — appeared as post
s from “Ivan Slipknot,” his Facebook identity and a reference to a favorite 
heavy metal band, friends said. 
  
 On March 1, the same day he purchased the .45-caliber semiautomatic pistol he u
sed in the attack, Specialist Lopez wrote an especially angry and vaguely threat
ening post. “My spiritual peace has all gone away, I am full of hate, I believ
e now the devil is taking me. I was robbed last night and I’m sure it was two 
flacos. Green light and thumbs down. It’s just that easy ...” 
  
 Continue reading the main story Video 
  
 The post was unclear about whether he was referring to an actual robbery, or a 
figurative robbery in which he was, perhaps, denied something that he felt was o
wed to him. The term “flacos” literally means thin people, but it is often u
sed in a derogatory fashion to describe those who are too thin, implying that th
ey are drug addicts. However, it is sometimes used to address another man, much 
as an English-speaking American might call a friend “dude.” 
  
 On Feb. 27, he posted a photo of what appeared to be a handgun with the comment
 “Plaka, plaka, plaka, plaka...,” Puerto Rican slang that means “Bang, ban
g, bang, bang...” 
  
 His posts in November showed him struggling with the death of his mother, Carme
n Lopez, a nurse in Guayanilla who died that month, and grappling with problems 
with the Army at the time of his mother’s death. 
  
 Photo 
  
 “In shock. Mom died today,” he wrote on Nov. 15. “Thanks for your condole
nces. I couldn’t answer your calls,” he wrote, blaming Army bureaucracy, whi
ch he described with a vulgarity. 
  
 One law enforcement official said Specialist Lopez had told others that he shou
ld have received more time off after his mother’s death. It was apparently a s
ource of anger for him, the official said. “He felt like he wasn’t being tre
ated fairly,” the official said. “He wasn’t getting what he felt he should
 have been entitled to.” 
  
 On Facebook, he made other posts that appeared noteworthy in light of the shoot
ing. On Oct. 3, he wrote in English, without further explanation: “Looking for
 a target.” 
  
 On Dec. 9, he wrote of his tour of duty in Iraq: “Exact 1 year and 2 days ago
, I went out of Iraq having seen, in Falluja, the most brutal explosion at about
 1,200 meters.” He described what happened, writing that moments after he turn
ed on the ignition of his vehicle, he saw the mushroom cloud of a large blast no
t far away. “I was only trying to concentrate on breathing deeply and keeping 
the focus I needed to finish the mission. There were hours of agony waiting for 
an attack by insurgents, but we were able to come out of Falluja alive. I was in
 vehicle #6. The worst part was that vehicle #5 was a diesel truck, the perfect 
target. And I only thought of seeing my family again.” 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 Advertisement Continue reading the main story 
  
 General Milley stressed that Specialist Lopez appeared not to have experienced 
direct combat while in Iraq and that he was being evaluated for, but had not rec
eived a diagnosis of, post-traumatic stress disorder. “So far, we have not dis
covered any specific traumatic event, wounds received in action, contact with th
e enemy, or anything else specific that he may have been exposed to while deploy
ed,” the general said. 
  
 Of the 16 people wounded on Wednesday, 10 have been treated and released. Three
 remained at Scott & White Memorial Hospital in Temple, and three others were re
covering at the Fort Hood medical center. Army officials identified the three so
ldiers killed in the attack, for whom they planned on holding a memorial service
 next week: Sgt. First Class Daniel Michael Ferguson, 39, of Mulberry, Fla.; Sta
ff Sgt. Carlos A. Lazaney-Rodriguez, 38, of Aguadilla, P.R.; and Sgt. Timothy Wa
yne Owens, 37, of Effingham, Ill. 
  
 The first report of the shooting came in at 4:16 p.m. Wednesday, when two soldi
ers who were wounded made the first call to 911. Officials said the shooting spa
nned a matter of only minutes over an area encompassing two city blocks, unfoldi
ng both inside buildings and outdoors in and near the First Medical Brigade area
. Specialist Lopez was mobile at one point, shooting at soldiers as he drove in 
his vehicle from one location to another. 
  
 He then approached a military police sergeant who responded to the 911 call. Th
ere was a verbal exchange between them, and then the sergeant drew her weapon an
d fired a round when Specialist Lopez brandished his weapon. He then placed his 
gun to his head and fired, killing himself, officials said. ||||| FORT HOOD, Tex
as (AP) — The Fort Hood soldier who gunned down three other military men befor
e killing himself had an argument with soldiers in his unit before opening fire,
 and investigators believe his mental condition was not the "direct precipitatin
g factor" in the shooting, authorities said Friday. 
  
 This photo provided by Glidden Lopez shows Army Spc. Ivan Lopez. Lopez killed t
hree people and wounded 16 others in a shooting at Fort Hood, Texas, on Wednesda
y, April 2, 2014, before killing himself.... (Associated Press) 
  
 This undated photo provided by Glidden Lopez shows Army Spc. Ivan Lopez. Lopez 
killed three people and wounded 16 others in a shooting at Fort Hood, Texas, on 
Wednesday, April 2, 2014, before killing... (Associated Press) 
  
 This undated image provided by the Texas Department of Public Safety shows Army
 Spc. Ivan Lopez. Authorities said Lopez killed three people and wounded 16 othe
rs in a shooting at Fort Hood, Texas, on... (Associated Press) 
  
 This undated photo provided by Glidden Lopez shows Army Spc. Ivan Lopez. Author
ities said Lopez killed three people and wounded 16 others in a shooting at Fort
 Hood, Texas, on Wednesday, April 2, 2014,... (Associated Press) 
  
 Lt. Gen. Mark Milley, left,and U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, right, talk to the media 
near Fort Hood's main gate, Thursday, April 3, 2014, in Fort Hood, Texas. A sold
ier opened fire Wednesday on fellow service... (Associated Press) 
  
 The base's commander, Lt. Gen. Mark Milley, made the remarks about Spc. Ivan Lo
pez's health a day after officials said his mental condition appeared to be an u
nderlying factor in the attack. 
  
 On Friday, Milley said that an "escalating argument" precipitated the assault. 
  
 Also Friday, Lopez's father said his son had struggled with the recent deaths o
f his mother and grandfather and the stress of being transferred to a new base. 
  
 Lopez's father, who shares the same name, said his son was receiving medical tr
eatment but was a peaceful family man and a hard worker. 
  
 "This is very painful for me," the elder Lopez said in the statement from his n
ative Puerto Rico, calling for prayers for the dead and the 16 people who were w
ounded in the shooting rampage. "My son could not have been in his right mind. H
e was not like that." 
  
 Wednesday's attack was the second at the base since 2009, when 13 people were k
illed by Army psychiatrist Nidal Hasan, who had said he was angry about being de
ployed to Afghanistan. 
  
 Lopez, an Army truck driver, did a short stint in Iraq in 2011 and told medical
 personnel he had suffered a traumatic brain injury. The 34-year-old was undergo
ing treatment for depression and anxiety while being evaluated for post-traumati
c stress disorder, base officials said. 
  
 But officials said Lopez did not see any combat in Iraq, and had not previously
 demonstrated a risk of violence. 
  
 He seemed to have a clean record that showed no ties to potential terrorists, t
hough military officials said the investigation was ongoing. 
  
 A family spokesman said Thursday that Lopez was upset he was granted only a 24-
hour leave to attend his mother's funeral in November. That leave was then exten
ded to two days. 
  
 Three people who were critically injured in the attack improved to fair conditi
on Friday at Scott & White Memorial Hospital in Temple. A fourth victim was expe
cted to be released later in the day. At the military's request, the hospital sa
id, it would not make the wounded or their families available for media intervie
ws. 
  
 Also Friday, Texas Gov. Rick Perry and Sen. Ted Cruz visited wounded at a milit
ary hospital. Cruz said he was inspired by a soldier who had suffered a bullet w
ound to his abdomen, but still shielded other soldiers and called 911. 
  
 Investigators searched Lopez's home on Thursday and questioned his wife, who de
clined to comment in Spanish when reached by phone by The Associated Press. 
  
 Lopez walked into a base building around 4 p.m. Wednesday and began firing a .4
5-caliber semi-automatic pistol. He then got into a vehicle and continued shooti
ng before entering another building on the Army post. He eventually was confront
ed by military police in a parking lot, Milley said. 
  
 As he came within 20 feet of a police officer, the gunman put his hands up but 
then reached under his jacket and pulled out his gun. The officer drew her own w
eapon, and the suspect put his gun to his head and pulled the trigger a final ti
me, Milley said. 
  
 ___ 
  
 Coto reported from San Juan, Puerto Rico. ||||| FORT HOOD, Texas (AP) — The t
hree soldiers killed in a shooting rampage at Fort Hood by another military man 
had served in the military for years and been deployed to Iraq as well as other 
places. 
  
 Lt. Gen. Mark Milley on Friday identified those killed as 39-year-old Daniel Fe
rguson, of Mulberry, Fla.; 38-year-old Carlos Lazaney Rodriguez, of Puerto Rico;
 and 37-year-old Timothy Owens, of Effingham, Ill. 
  
 Milley says Spc. Ivan Lopez killed the three Wednesday at the military base aft
er a verbal altercation that escalated. He then killed himself. 
  
 Ferguson was a transportation supervisor who had been deployed to Kuwait, Iraq 
and Afghanistan. 
  
 Lazaney Rodriguez was a unit supply sergeant who had served in Kuwait and Iraq.
 
  
 Owens was a heavy vehicle driver who had also been deployed in Iraq and Kuwait.
 ||||| Story highlights An "escalating argument" may have led to shooting, offic
ials say 
  
 Texas Gov. Rick Perry and Sen. Ted Cruz visit some shooting victims 
  
 Gunman Ivan Lopez killed three people, wounded 16 others at the Army post 
  
 A memorial for three soldiers killed will be held at Fort Hood next Wednesday 
  
 Authorities investigating this week's deadly shooting spree at Fort Hood said F
riday that an altercation between Spc. Ivan Lopez and his fellow soldiers, rathe
r than a medical condition, may have led to Lopez opening fire. 
  
 "The immediate precipitating factor was more likely an escalating argument in h
is unit area," Lt. Gen. Mark Milley, the post's commanding general, told reporte
rs. 
  
 Some of the soldiers involved in the altercation were victims in the shooting, 
according to Chris Grey, spokesman for the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Comm
and, who appeared with Milley at a news conference on the sprawling post. 
  
 Officials would not release further details about the argument, saying the inve
stigation was still ongoing into what caused the 34-year-old to set out on a sho
oting spree that left three soldiers dead and 16 wounded before he killed himsel
f. 
  
 But the sister of one of the soldiers injured in the attack said that prior to 
the shooting Lopez stopped by the base's personnel office to pick up a form requ
esting leave -- or military permission to be away for a time. 
  
 Armetra Otis, sister of Sgt. Jonathan Westbrook, said on CNN's "The Lead" that 
her brother "was at work and a guy came in and asked for a leave form." 
  
 The soldier was told he would have to come back later, Otis said, 
  
 "And apparently I guess he didn't want to hear that, so he came back and just o
pened fire, " Otis said. 
  
 "He shot the first guy he saw and killed him and then turned the gun on my brot
her and he was shot four times," she said. Sgt. Westbrook was released from a ho
spital Friday, his sister said. 
  
 JUST WATCHED 24 hrs at Fort Hood, a wrap Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH 24 h
rs at Fort Hood, a wrap 02:25 
  
 JUST WATCHED Fiancée of Fort Hood victim speaks out Replay More Videos ... MUS
T WATCH Fiancée of Fort Hood victim speaks out 01:35 
  
 JUST WATCHED 'Altercation' may have preceded shooting Replay More Videos ... MU
ST WATCH 'Altercation' may have preceded shooting 01:57 
  
 JUST WATCHED Fort Hood shooter underwent treatment Replay More Videos ... MUST 
WATCH Fort Hood shooter underwent treatment 02:04 
  
 Both Milley and Grey said they did not know if the leave issue in itself led to
 the altercation. 
  
 "At this time, we have not established a concrete motive," Grey said. 
  
 Investigators have not uncovered any history of criminal convictions or previou
s criminal activity by Lopez, nor have they found any links to terrorism. 
  
 On Thursday Milley said investigators believed a medical history that indicates
 an unstable psychiatric or psychological condition may be a "fundamental causal
 factor," in the shooting. 
  
 But on Friday he said investigators "do not believe" that his "underlying medic
al conditions ... are the direct precipitating factor" 
  
 The shooting blindsided victims, said Dr. Matthew Davis, medical director of tr
auma services at Scott & White Memorial Hospital in Temple. 
  
 "It was a shocking episode. It felt very surreal," he said after speaking to vi
ctims. "It was a very unexpected thing in the middle of a working day." 
  
 Governor, senator visit 
  
 Texas Gov. Rick Perry and the state's junior U.S. senator visited with some of 
the wounded Friday. 
  
 Speaking to reporters at Fort Hood afterward, U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz hailed the bra
very of wounded survivors. He recalled the story of one soldier, shot in the abd
omen, who called 911 and "stepped forward" to save others. 
  
 Acknowledging the post has seen two mass shootings since 2009, Perry said there
 were no easy answers to what happened Wednesday, but that soldiers there will "
recover from this latest tragedy." 
  
 "We'll learn lessons about what occurred here and minimize the chances of this 
ever happening again," Perry said. 
  
 Perry and Cruz declined to answer questions about whether soldiers should be ab
le to carry concealed weapons on base. Right now, Perry said, the focus should b
e on those who were wounded or killed Wednesday. 
  
 The conditions of three victims, who were previously listed as critical, have b
een upgraded to fair, Scott & White Memorial Hospital posted on Twitter on Frida
y morning. 
  
 Five have been discharged from the hospital. Of the four remaining Friday morni
ng, one was expected to go home later in the day, the hospital said. 
  
 Milley announced Friday afternoon that the three soldiers killed will be rememb
ered in a memorial service at the post next Wednesday, exactly one week after th
e attack. 
  
 The rampage 
  
 The shooting started about 4 p.m. Wednesday when Lopez walked into an administr
ation building at the base and opened fire with his .45-caliber semiautomatic pi
stol. 
  
 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting Fort Hood shooting 
– Luci Hamlin and her husband, Spc. Timothy Hamlin, wait to get back to their 
home at Fort Hood after a shooting at the Texas Army post on Wednesday, April 2.
 Multiple people were killed and others injured when a shooter opened fire, a se
nior military official and law enforcement official told CNN. The officials said
 the suspected shooter was among the dead. Hide Caption 1 of 11 11 photos: Fort 
Hood shooting Fort Hood shooting – A police officer checks drivers' IDs outsid
e the main gate at Fort Hood. Hide Caption 2 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting
 Fort Hood shooting – Krystina Cassidy and Dianna Simpson, waiting outside the
 Bernie Beck Gate at Fort Hood, try to contact their husbands, who are stationed
 at the post. Hide Caption 3 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting Fort Hood shoot
ing – A Bell County Sheriff's Department official stands near a vehicle as car
s are checked at the Bernie Beck Gate. Hide Caption 4 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood
 shooting Fort Hood shooting – An ambulance makes its way to Fort Hood. Hide C
aption 5 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting Fort Hood shooting – Military per
sonnel and civilians wait outside Fort Hood for updates on the situation. Hide C
aption 6 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting Fort Hood shooting – Vehicles wai
t at a closed entrance to Fort Hood. Hide Caption 7 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood s
hooting Fort Hood shooting – A military police officer stops a car. Hide Capti
on 8 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting Fort Hood shooting – Traffic near the
 main gate of Fort Hood. Hide Caption 9 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting Fort
 Hood shooting – Lt. Savanah Hess, a nurse, waits in her car to enter the lock
ed-down post. Hide Caption 10 of 11 11 photos: Fort Hood shooting Fort Hood shoo
ting – Military police direct traffic outside Fort Hood. Hide Caption 11 of 11
 
  
 JUST WATCHED Obama: We will get to the bottom of this Replay More Videos ... MU
ST WATCH Obama: We will get to the bottom of this 02:14 
  
 He then got into a car, fired from the vehicle, got out of the car, walked into
 another nearby administration building and fired again. 
  
 One of the locations was the medical brigade, the other the transportation batt
alion. Lopez was assigned to the 13th Sustainment Command, which deals with logi
stics. In his work, he had regular dealings with the transportation battalion. 
  
 But authorities have "no indication at this time" that Lopez was targeting spec
ific soldiers when he opened fire on the Army post, Milley said. 
  
 The base, which has more than 45,000 soldiers and nearly 9,000 civilian employe
es, went on lockdown after the shooting began. 
  
 A short time later, a military police officer came face to face with Lopez. Bot
h he and she drew their weapons, Milley said. 
  
 Lopez put the gun to his head and pulled the trigger, ending his life. 
  
 At Lopez's apartment, his wife was watching news reports about the spree, worry
ing about her husband, from whom she had not heard all afternoon, said neighbor 
Xanderia Morris, who tried to console her. 
  
 But Lopez's wife had no idea that he was the shooter until a local TV station i
dentified the dead gunman. His widow became "hysterical" when she heard the news
, Morris said. 
  
 Officers picked up Lopez's widow at their apartment near the base in Killeen, a
nd she was cooperating with law enforcement, an FBI official told CNN. 
  
 Depression, anxiety 
  
 Lopez hailed from Puerto Rico, where he served in the National Guard from 1999 
until 2010 before moving to the U.S. Army. 
  
 He had two deployments as an infantryman, including a four-month stint in Iraq 
in 2011 as a truck driver, Milley said. 
  
 Before coming to Fort Hood in February, Lopez served at Fort Bliss in Texas. 
  
 He, his wife and their daughter moved into an apartment a little more than a we
ek before the shooting. 
  
 They appeared to be a normal couple, smiling "whenever they'd see someone," Mor
ris said. 
  
 But behind Lopez's smile lay a history of depression, anxiety and other psychia
tric disorders, Milley told reporters. The soldier was receiving treatment and t
aking antidepressants, he said. 
  
 Army records don't show him as having been wounded in Iraq, but Lopez reported 
that he had suffered a traumatic brain injury, Milley said. 
  
 The shooter "had a clean record" behaviorally, Army Secretary John McHugh said.
 And he gave no sign during a psychiatric exam last month that he was likely to 
become violent. 
  
 Lopez had also been prescribed the sedative Ambien, McHugh said. 
  
 Investigators who searched his home have found no significant physical evidence
, such as a suicide note, to indicate motive, a law enforcement official told CN
N on Friday on the condition of anonymity. 
  
 The official also said that Lopez purchased a "large amount" of ammunition when
 he bought a .45-caliber gun on March 1, and continued to buy more ammunition th
roughout March. 
  
 U.S. law enforcement officials previously said Lopez bought his gun at Guns Gal
ore, a store in Killeen. 
  
 The casualties 
  
 All those killed in the shooting were military personnel, Milley said. 
  
 Sgt. Timothy Owens was one them, his family said in a prepared statement. 
  
 "He was a very outgoing person and enjoyed Taekwondo," the statement said. "He 
loved his job in the Army and was going to make it a career." 
  
 Owens, 37, was a counselor in the Army and had served in Iraq. 
  
 His mother, Mary Muntean, told CNN affiliate WICS-TV in Springfield, Illinois: 
"He was a good person. Why would they shoot a good person that was helping them?
" Owens loved the military and planned to make it his career, his mother told th
e station. 
  
 "He didn't answer the phone so I left a message on his phone: 'Son, call me so 
I know if you're OK or not.' Well, never got no call from him. I thought: 'Oh Go
d, please don't let it be,'" his mother said. 
  
 Also killed was Staff Sgt. Carlos A. Lazaney-Rodriguez of Aguadilla, Puerto Ric
o, according to his aunt, Benny Rodriguez. 
  
 Lazaney-Rodriguez, 38, planned to retire from the military soon after serving 2
0 years, Aguadilla Mayor Carlos Mendez told CNN en Español's Mayra Cuevas. 
  
 "It was a very close-knit family," Mendez said "Excellent, decent, very good pe
ople. I know his family and his parents. They are good people." 
  
 Sgt. 1st Class Danny Ferguson also was killed, his fiancée, Kristen Haley, tol
d CNN affiliate WTSP-TV in Tampa, Florida. 
  
 Ferguson died trying to hold a door shut to stop the shooter, Haley, also a sol
dier, told CNN affiliate WTSP-TV in Tampa, Florida. 
  
 "He held that door shut because it wouldn't lock. It seems the doors would be b
ullet proof, but apparently they're not," Haley told the station. "If he wasn't 
the one standing there holding those doors closed, that shooter would have been 
able to get through and shoot everyone else." 
  
 Haley said Ferguson was a native of Mulberry, Florida, and an outstanding athle
te at Mulberry High, where he graduated in 1993. The small town is about 30 mile
s east of Tampa. 
  
 One or two wounded victims may face long-term disabilities, but doctors are wor
king to prevent this, said Davis, the Scott & White Memorial Hospital medical di
rector of trauma services. 
  
 Not again 
  
 When he first heard about the shooting, Davis says one thought ran through his 
mind: "How can this possibly happen again?" 
  
 Less than five years ago, the hospital where Davis works treated casualties aft
er Army Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan killed 13 people and wounded 32 more in a Novembe
r 2009 shooting at Fort Hood. 
  
 Hasan was convicted of 13 counts of murder and 32 counts of attempted murder, a
nd a military jury recommended in August that he be put to death. 
  
 The former military psychiatrist told a court he was on a terrorist mission to 
protect leading members of the Taliban. 
  
 Read: Fort Hood shooting: Psychiatric issues 'fundamental underlying causal fac
tor' ||||| The seed for this crawl was a list of every host in the Wayback Machi
ne 
  
 This crawl was run at a level 1 (URLs including their embeds, plus the URLs of 
all outbound links including their embeds) 
  
 The WARC files associated with this crawl are not currently available to the ge
neral public. |||||