By . Peter Allen . PUBLISHED: . 08:35 EST, 11 December 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 08:
36 EST, 11 December 2013 . A woman challenging France’s burka ban stayed away 
from court today because she did not want ‘to be perceived as a symbol of supp
osed rampant Islamisation’. Cassandra Belin, 20, sparked a near riot in the Pa
ris suburb of Trappes in July after being stopped by police for wearing a full f
ace veil. She admits telling the officers to ‘shut up’ but denies saying ‘
Allah will exterminate you'. Cassandra Belin, 20, sparked a near riot in the Par
is suburb of Trappes in July after being stopped by police for wearing a full fa
ce veil. Above, her husband Mickael Khiri arrives at court today with her lawyer
 Philippe Bataille . Cassandra Belin's lawyers have launched a constitutional ch
allenge to the ban on Muslim veils, arguing that the controversial law of 2011 w
hich made them illegal should be scrapped. File photo . Now her lawyers have lau
nched a constitutional challenge to the ban on Muslim veils, arguing that the co
ntroversial law of 2011 which made them illegal should be scrapped. Belin’s hu
sband, Michael Khiri, was arrested for insulting one of the officers who stopped
 his wife in Trappes during the Muslim fasting period of Ramadan. This led to a 
large crowd gathering on the couple’s housing estate, where hundreds of mainly
 Muslim immigrants live. Soon bus stops and other public property was being dest
royed, as running battles took place between youths and the police. Belin, a Mus
lim convert who has worn a veil all her adult life, was outraged when her husban
d received a three-month suspended prison sentence. In October, Belin herself we
nt on trial for defying the ban on Islamic veils and for insulting a police offi
cer. Many conservative politicians claim that France's 6million-plus Muslims are
 changing the nature of the country. Above, a protest against the burka ban in P
aris in 2010 . Now her lawyer has launched a constitutional challenge to the ent
ire burka ban at the criminal court in Versailles, west of Paris. Philippe Batai
lle told the court that the ban was discriminatory, unconstitutional, and agains
t the guiding principles of the French Republic. Mr Bataille said his client was
 deliberating shunning the hearing because ‘she does not want to be wrongly pe
rceived as the symbol of a supposed rampant Islamisation'. Many conservative pol
iticians claim that France’s 6million-plus Muslims are changing the nature of 
the country. Thibault de Montbrial (pictured at court today), lawyer for the pol
ice, said that 'a small group of radical elements were testing the institutions'
 of secular France, under the guise of religious freedom . They say that burkas 
are a symbol of many Muslims' desire to exclude themselves from other French peo
ple. This has led to growing support for the far-right National Front party whic
h wants to stop the so-called ‘Islamisation’ of society. Thibault de Montbri
al, for the police, said that ‘a small group of radical elements were testing 
the institutions’ of secular France, under the guise of religious freedom. Ear
lier this month, European judges heard the case of a 23-year-old French woman wh
o also claimed the burka ban violates her rights. The Strasbourg-based European 
Court of Human Rights will rule on the case in 2014. Today’s case in Versaille
s continues. Sorry we are unable to accept comments for legal reasons.