The co-founder of pre-Facebook social network Plaxo has been charged with murder
ing his ex-wife's new husband. Minh Nguyen, 38, allegedly shot Corey Mattison tw
o months after he married Denise Nguyen, having broken into the new couple's tow
nhouse in Ashburn, Virginia. Two of Nguyen's three children with Denise were pre
sent at the time of the shooting at 9.30pm on Thursday, police said. Shooting: P
laxo co-founder Minh Nguyen (right) allegedly shot dead Corey Mattison, who marr
ied his ex-wife Denise in November (new couple pictured together, left). Nguyen 
has been charged with first-degree murder . Denise walked in with the third chil
d during the attack, according to the Londoun County Sheriff's Office. Nobody el
se was injured in the attack, the report said, and Nguyen was arrested without i
ncident. He was charged with first-degree murder and is being held without bond.
 Mattison, who had two elementary-school-aged children of his own, was a project
 manager at a glass construction company based in Washington, D.C., WPBF report
ed. His colleagues told the station Mattison spent a lot of time with his childr
en as well as Nguyen's. 'Corey and his wife would go to a baseball game with the
 kids, and [Nguyen] would blow up,' his colleague Rick Knutson told the station.
 Attack: Mattison (left) was killed in the shooting at the townhouse he shares w
ith Denise and their children from previous relationships. Denise's three childr
en with Nguyen were present at the shooting, police say . 'Broke in': Nguyen, 38
, allegedly broke into the property in Ashburn, Virginia, at 9.30pm on Thursday 
. 'He would try to prevent them from taking the kids anywhere. The guy seemed to
 be a little unstable.' Nguyen, a major figure in the US technology business, co
-founded Plaxo in 2002 with Sean Parker, Facebook's first president. The site ha
s since been bought by Comcast. The social network described itself as the 'worl
d's leading online address book, storing over 50 million address books with 3.7 
billion contacts.' Nguyen, graduated from George Mason University with a degree 
in Multimedia Design in 1997, is based in Washington, D.C. Tech career: Nguyen c
o-founded Plaxo in 2002 with Sean Parker (right), who was Facebook's first presi
dent . Landmark venture: The pre-Facebook site was billed as an 'online address 
book' used by 3.7 billion people . Having started out as an interface programmer
 at AOL, Nguyen's post-Plaxo career saw him take up advising roles at numerous a
pps and websites. In 2012, he became the founding CEO of App Press, which provid
ed tools for designers to build, manage and deploy apps. He is currently an advi
sor to for at least three tech firms and the chairman of Syllabuster, a mobile p
latform for students and teachers.