(CNN) -- He was loved and admired the world over, profiled in books and movies, 
and showered with awards and accolades. But even the most public of personalitie
s have little-known facts buried in their biographies. Here are 10 surprising fa
cts you probably didn't know about Nelson Mandela: . 1. He lived up to his name:
 Mandela's birth name was Rolihlahla. In his Xhosa tribe, the name means pulling
 the branch of a tree or troublemaker. (The name "Nelson" was given to him by hi
s teacher on his first day of elementary school. It's not clear why she chose th
at particular name. It was the 1920s, and African children were given English na
mes so colonial masters could pronounce them easily). 2. He had a cameo in a Spi
ke Lee film: He had a big part in Spike Lee's 1992 biopic "Malcolm X." At the ve
ry end of the movie, he plays a teacher reciting Malcolm X's famous speech to a 
room full of Soweto school kids. But the pacifist Mandela wouldn't say "by any m
eans necessary." So Lee cut back to footage of Malcolm X to close out the film. 
3. There's a woodpecker named after him: From Cape Town to California, streets n
amed after Mandela abound. But he's also been the subject of some rather unusual
 tributes. Last year, scientists named a prehistoric woodpecker after him: Austr
alopicus nelsonmandelai. In 1973, the physics institute at Leeds University name
d a nuclear particle the 'Mandela particle.' 4. He married a first lady: Before 
tying the knot with Mandela on his 80th birthday, Graca Machel was married to Mo
zambique President Samora Machel. Her marriage to Mandela after her husband's de
ath means she has been the first lady of two nations. 5. He was a master of disg
uise: When Mandela was eluding authorities during his fight against apartheid, h
e disguised himself in various ways, including as a chauffeur. The press nicknam
ed him "the Black Pimpernel" because of his police evasion tactics. "I became a 
creature of the night. I would keep to my hideout during the day, and would emer
ge to do my work when it became dark," he says in his biography, "Long Walk to F
reedom." 6. A bloody sport intrigued him: Besides politics, Mandela's other pass
ion was boxing. "I did not like the violence of boxing. I was more interested in
 the science of it - how you move your body to protect yourself, how you use a p
lan to attack and retreat, and how you pace yourself through a fight," he says i
n his biography. 7. His favorite dish is probably not yours: He's been wined and
 dined by world leaders. But what Mandela loved eating most was tripe. Yup, the 
stomach lining of farm animals. 8. He quit his day job: He studied law at the Un
iversity of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg and opened the nation's first black la
w firm in the city in 1952. 9. He was on the U.S. terror watch list: Mandela was
n't removed from the U.S. terror watch list until 2008 -- at age 89. He and othe
r members of the African National Congress were placed on it because of their mi
litant fight against apartheid. 10. He drew his inspiration from a poem: While h
e was in prison, Mandela would read William Ernest Henley's "Invictus" to fellow
 prisoners. The poem, about never giving up, resonated with Mandela for its line
s "I am the master of my fate. I am the captain of my soul." You may know it fro
m the movie by the same name starring Morgan Freeman as Mandela.