(CNN) -- "Everyone agrees we need to go forward with the relief well," National 
Incident Commander Thad Allen said Friday of the now-plugged BP gusher in the Gu
lf, adding that officials are now considering other options in addition to the r
elief well. Work will resume on a relief well as scientists and BP engineers con
tinue to assess whether a planned "bottom kill" is necessary, he said. The BP oi
l well, which ruptured April 20 after an explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil 
rig, spilled more than 2 million gallons of oil per day into the Gulf of Mexico 
before being successfully shut. Allen said that pressure tests were finished and
 that pressure within the wellhead was unchanged. That means there are options a
bout how to handle the well, which has stopped pouring oil into the Gulf, he sai
d. "We have successfully shut in this well. We have something now that we haven'
t had before and we have we have -- I wouldn't call it a luxury -- but we have t
he trade space to consider alternatives under less than a high-pressure situatio
n." Allen said crews probably did "too good a job on the top kill." Cement and m
ud got into a core area of the well. But Allen said it's not clear how thick the
 cement layer is, or how vulnerable it might be to pressure inside the well. "Ev
eryone agrees we need to go forward with the relief well," Allen said. "The reli
ef well will be finished. How it gets finished will be determined on risk mitiga
tion and the way forward is the essence of what is being discussed right now. Th
e relief well will be finished. We will kill the well." As they await answers ab
out the condition of the well, businesses in the Gulf Coast are hoping high-prof
ile visitors will help boost local economies. President Obama and his wife, Mich
elle, plan to travel to the region this weekend to support businesses that have 
been devastated by the oil disaster. One of their daughters, Sasha, will join th
em for the trip. Their other daughter, Malia, is at a camp and will not make the
 trip, a senior administration official said. The family will leave Saturday mor
ning for Panama City Beach, Florida. "Even as the president talks about what our
 next steps are in our response, obviously part of this will be highlighting the
 tremendous economic toll that has taken place," White House spokesman Robert Gi
bbs told reporters earlier this week. Visitors spent more than $34 billion in 20
08 in congressional districts along the Gulf Coast, sustaining 400,000 jobs. The
 effects of the oil spill on the region's travel industry could last up to three
 years and cost up to $22.7 billion, according to an analysis conducted last mon
th by Oxford Economics for the U.S. Travel Association. In preparing the researc
h, Oxford Economics looked at current spending, government models predicting oil
 flow and the effect of 25 past crises on tourism to develop a model to gauge th
e Gulf disaster's impact. Case studies of past disasters -- including the SARS r
espiratory disease outbreak, Hurricane Katrina and the 2004 Asian tsunami -- sho
w that tourism often is affected beyond the disaster area and long after the res
olution of the crisis. To mitigate the effects of the disaster, changing percept
ions is key. "The president will meet with those folks and have a chance to upda
te, I think, the region on where we are," Gibbs said. "And I think it will be im
portant for the president to talk about what are the next steps in bringing the 
region back." Meanwhile, work is expected to resume Friday on the drilling of a 
relief well that is intended to give engineers a better look at the core of the 
well. Pressure tests will help them make a recommendation to former Adm. Thad Al
len, the federal government point man on the disaster, on whether a bottom kill 
is necessary to permanently seal the ruptured deepwater oil well. The well erupt
ed after an April 20 explosion aboard the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon that le
ft 11 dead. A temporary cap contained the spill on July 15, and nearly 3,000 bar
rels of heavy drilling mud and cement drove the oil back under the ocean floor l
ast week in the static kill process. The well gushed an estimated 53,000 barrels
 (nearly 2.3 million gallons) of oil per day before it was capped. Since then, f
resh, green grass has started growing again in some of the hardest-hit marshes o
f southern Louisiana, but oil continues to wash ashore in some places. CNN's Viv
ian Kuo contributed to this report.