By . Sophie Borland Health Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 19:40 EST, 10 December 2012 .
 | . UPDATED: . 04:31 EST, 11 December 2012 . Concerned: Care services minister 
Norman Lamb says there needs to be 'complete culture change' Care institutions w
here vulnerable patients are dumped for years on end will be shut down in the wa
ke of the Winterbourne View scandal. Ministers want to end the practice of sendi
ng adults and children with learning disabilities to private hospitals and care 
homes that are often hundreds of miles from where they used to live. Instead, th
ey want them to be looked after in their own homes or smaller residential centre
s nearby. The plans have been drawn up in the wake of the abuse of residents at 
Winterbourne View, a private hospital for adults with learning difficulties near
 Bristol. Last year a BBC Panorama documentary exposed how staff routinely tortu
red and abused vulnerable patients. The facility has since been closed and six s
taff jailed. Although the Government does not think abuse on this scale is wides
pread, there is concern that hundreds of patients are being poorly looked after 
in similar institutions. Many are sedated with high-dose drugs or forcefully hel
d down if they become upset and aggressive. There are currently 1,200 adults and
 children with learning disabilities placed in what are known as assessment and 
treatment centres. But over the next two years the Government wants to reduce th
e number of patients to between 300 and 400, and to ensure that they only stay f
or a few weeks at a time. Instead, ministers want local councils and NHS bodies 
to enable patients to be looked after in their own homes or to be  housed in sm
all, local, centres. Care services minister Norman Lamb said: ‘There has to be
 a complete culture change. Would we tolerate someone with cancer getting the wr
ong sort of treatment or wrong sort of care? ‘No, we wouldn’t, and yet for t
oo long we have tolerated people with learning disabilities being put in the wro
ng settings. Scandal: A BBC Panorama documentary last year exposed abuse at Wint
erbourne View private hospital in Bristol . Abuse: The investigation exposed how
 vulnerable patients suffered terrible treatment . ‘They are living in large h
ospitals, completely inappropriately, where they are put under stress and strain
, where their behaviour is inevitably affected.’ Many of these hospitals are p
rivately owned and ministers fear they may be ‘profiting from others’ misery
’. They want the owners and boards of directors at these firms to face prosecu
tion if the hospital is found to be abusing or neglecting patients. Mr Lamb adde
d: ‘When you look at Winterbourne View, the people who committed the abuse and
 the assaults were convicted, but what about the people making the money from th
at company?’ The Government has also instructed the Care Quality Commission wa
tchdog to carry out unannounced inspections of these hospitals next year. Those 
found to be failing will be closed down and staff will face prosecution. And in 
June 2014, NHS organisations and councils will have to have drawn up a care-plan
 for each patient based on their needs. In most cases these will state they shou
ld be looked after in their own home or local residential centre. Organisations 
will have to provide a ‘justification’ whenever people continue to be housed
 in a hospital.