Carnes, Mississippi (CNN)  -- The deaths of two Mississippi teens are about to p
ut a national focus on a little-recognized problem. Devon Byrd, 16, and Wade Whi
te, 18, were killed when a natural gas tank at a well production site exploded l
ast fall in Carnes, in southern Mississippi. Local teenagers said the site is a 
popular hangout because it's quiet and secluded. But the dead teens' parents say
 the explosion could have been prevented if some warning signs had been posted -
- "something simple as fences, gates and signs, probably very inexpensive, and c
ertainly a lot less expensive that what a child's life is worth," said White's f
ather, Phillip. Police say they don't know exactly what ignited flammable vapors
 inside the tank. When it exploded, the teenagers were killed instantly. Their b
odies were found about 40 yards from the tank's base; the tank landed another 20
 yards from them. Investigators say they found a lighter, but don't know whether
 it was involved. "I couldn't believe that my child was gone," White's mother, W
anda, told CNN. The White and Byrd families have an ally in their camp. The Chem
ical Safety Board, created by Congress, investigated the accident and found at l
east 40 other deaths involving oil and gas wells in the past 25 years. Most of t
hem involved young people. The CSB says it found a patchwork of laws nationwide 
that don't uniformly address security around oil and gas wells. It's asking the 
industry to police itself by voluntarily installing fences and warning signs. "I
f these tanks are sitting out there in the middle of nowhere, no protection arou
nd them, no warning, they are just an accident waiting to happen," CSB Chairman 
John Bresland told CNN. Delphi Oil, the company that owns the tank that blew up,
 told CNN it could not discuss the accident because of pending negligence lawsui
ts filed by the families. A spokesman called the boys' deaths tragic, but the co
mpany says it is complying with all rules. However, authorities tell CNN there a
re no state regulations requiring locked gates or no-smoking signs. "He may be i
n compliance," Forrest County Sheriff Billy McGee told CNN. "But there's nothing
 in the rules for him to be in compliance with." Carnes is about 40 miles north 
of the Gulf Coast. In nearby Laurel, city zoning laws require oil and gas tanks 
to be fenced in with warning signs, according to Emergency Management District E
xecutive Director Terry Steed. The CSB asked family and friends of Byrd and Whit
e to help them make an educational video about the dangers of oil and gas produc
tion sites. It's called "No Place to Hang Out," and it's part of a national camp
aign starting this week to teach young people about the potential danger of tank
s. But it also urges the industry to improve itself. "There's nothing we can do 
to bring Devon and Wade back, " said White's girlfriend, Maria Thompson, 16. "Bu
t if it can save someone else's life, I'd like to see it happen." "Like McDonald
s," added another friend, Shawn Ashlee Davis. "They have to put 'Caution. This c
offee's hot' (on their cups). I really think they need signs warning 'This is a 
dangerous place.' " Mississippi state Sen. Billy Hudson told CNN he plans to int
roduce a state law requiring barbed-wire-topped fences, locked gates and "Danger
 - Keep Out" signs. "There's no guarantees," Hudson said. "You could cut the fen
ce with a bolt cutter, or you can shoot off a lock. But it'll be a deterrent, an
d it's a step in the right direction." White's father says his son would be prou
d that friends and family are speaking out: "He'd be proud that we're trying to 
do something to keep other kids and other families from going through what we're
 going through."