(CNN) -- The chief of staff to the director of Immigration and Customs Enforceme
nt resigned Saturday amid allegations that she helped create a culture of sexual
 discrimination against men. Suzanne Barr, chief of staff for ICE Director John 
Morton, voluntarily stepped down last month and had been on paid leave. In a let
ter to Morton, obtained by CNN, Barr called the allegations "unfounded and witho
ut any merit" and said she was confident her reputation would be restored. "In r
ecent weeks, I have been the focus of unfounded allegations designed to destroy 
my reputation, but of greater concern however, is the threat these allegations r
epresent to the reputation of this agency and the men and women who proudly serv
e their country by advancing ICE's mission," she wrote. "As such, I feel it is i
ncumbent upon me to take every step necessary to prevent further harm to the age
ncy and to prevent this from further distracting from our critical work." ICE sp
okesman Brian Hale said Morton has received Barr's resignation. "We wish her the
 best of luck in her future endeavors," he said. The move comes on the heels of 
a job discrimination lawsuit filed by the head of the ICE office in New York aga
inst the Department of Homeland Security and DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano. In 
the suit, New York ICE chief James Hayes claims he was passed over for promotion
s in favor of less-qualified women, some of whom used to work for Napolitano whe
n she was governor of Arizona. As part of his lawsuit, Hayes cites behavior by B
arr in an attempt to prove an alleged culture of sexual discrimination against m
en, according to Hayes' lawyer, Morris Fischer of Maryland. Hayes said Barr "cre
ated a frat house-type atmosphere that is targeted to humiliate and intimidate m
ale employees." When the lawsuit was filed, ICE spokesman Hale said the allegati
ons were under review and that Barr had voluntarily placed herself on leave pend
ing the outcome of the investigation. That review is ongoing, according to a fed
eral official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "We are obviously very pl
eased with the agency's first step in rectifying this situation by accepting Ms.
 Barr's resignation," said Fischer, Hayes' attorney. "Now is the time for the ag
ency to move forward and make restitution to the individuals harmed." Rep. Peter
 King, chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, said Barr's resigna
tion "raises the most serious questions about management practices and personnel
 policies at the Department of Homeland Security." The committee will continue a
 review of the case and the personnel practices of the DHS in general. In his la
wsuit, Hayes blames Barr for "sexually offensive behavior." In one alleged incid
ent, Hayes said Barr called a male employee at a hotel and screamed at him, usin
g crude language to say she wanted to have sex with him. Hayes also said that Ba
rr moved the office contents of three male employees into a men's bathroom at IC
E headquarters in 2009. After his client's lawsuit was filed, Fischer said, he w
as contacted by other federal employees who had heard about Hayes' claim. They p
rovided affidavits to Hayes and his lawyer alleging more sexually charged commen
ts made by Barr, according to Fischer. "We've been getting calls and e-mails fro
m all over the country from people who want to come forward with information tha
t may be helpful on this case," the attorney told CNN. In an affidavit provided 
to CNN, another ICE employee describes a 2009 meeting in the office of ICE Direc
tor Morton, during which employees were discussing personal plans for Halloween.
 The male employee says he overheard Barr ask a "senior ICE employee" about the 
size of his genitals. "You're a sexy mother-(expletive)," she allegedly said. Ov
er 17 years, Hayes rose through the ranks from Border Patrol agent to a top posi
tion at headquarters in charge of Detention and Removal Operations, overseeing a
 $2.5 billion budget, his lawsuit states. Hayes claims he was removed from that 
job because of gender discrimination. He is suing to recover $335,000 in moving 
costs and lost bonuses he says he incurred when he was transferred in 2009 to Ne
w York from Washington. His lawyer says other ICE employees have been reimbursed
 for similar expenses. Hayes' lawsuit also claims he faced retaliation after thr
eatening to file an Equal Opportunity Claim against DHS and cites six internal i
nvestigations that were all unfounded. However, all but one of those investigati
ons against him involving complaints by fellow employees were initially filed be
fore Napolitano took office in 2008. In court documents, Hayes said the complain
ts were reviewed after he began complaining. DHS has filed a motion to dismiss t
he lawsuit and denied allegations of discrimination and retaliation. Its attorne
ys argued that the "unfounded allegations" made against Barr are "irrelevant" an
d an "attempt to embarrass or harass senior government officials." According to 
a federal official who defended ICE as an agency of "dedicated law enforcement p
rofessionals," Hayes' lawsuit is filled with "false and unsubstantiated" allegat
ions against Barr and other DHS employees. The allegations "do not align with th
e fact that Mr. Hayes has routinely held high-ranking assignments, including his
 current position as head of ICE's second-largest field office in New York, the 
official added. CNN's Ross Levitt and Carol Cratty contributed to this report.