(CNN) -- When someone tells you to go jump in a lake, sometimes it's best to tak
e their advice. For one golfer, it saved him from a world of hurt. At first, Pab
lo Larrazabal thought nothing was out of the ordinary when he swatted an insect 
away from his face at a tournament in Malaysia on Friday. The next thing he knew
, he was being attacked by a swarm of hornets. "They were three times the size o
f bees," said the Spaniard. "They were huge and 30 or 40 of them started to atta
ck me big time. "I didn't know what to do. My caddy told me to run, so I start r
unning like a crazy guy, but the hornets were still there, so the other players 
told me to jump in the lake. "I ran to the lake, threw my scorecard down, took o
ff my shoes and jumped in the water. "It was the scariest moment of my career, f
or sure. I've never been so scared." Thankfully, after some treatment, the 30-ye
ar-old was able to continue. Remarkably, he birdied the hole he was on when the 
attack occurred -- the 14th -- then completed his second round in four-under-par
 68, which meant he made the halfway cut of the European Tour event. "The refere
es and a doctor took me aside and gave me a couple of injections and told me to 
relax," Larrazabal said on the European Tour website. "After the injections I fe
lt a lot better and could continue. Without the help of the referees I couldn't 
have finished the round, because I was in no state to play golf. "Tomorrow it wi
ll be very, very scary to play that hole. I'm not sure what I'm going to do, but
 hopefully I will play it as quickly as I can." Larrazabal, ranked 65th in the w
orld, has won one tournament this year -- at January's Abu Dhabi Championship, w
here he beat major winners Rory McIlroy and Phil Mickelson by one shot to claim 
the $2.7 million first prize. He will go into the weekend at the Malaysian Open 
tied for 25th place, trailing leader Lee Westwood by 11 shots. The Englishman, a
 former world No. 1, followed up his opening 65 with a 66 to be four clear of Eu
ropean Ryder Cup teammate Nicolas Colsaerts. The Belgian was tied for second wit
h 327th-ranked Antonio Lascuna of the Philippines, who finished 90th in the Kual
a Lumpur tournament last year.