For Luis Figo, Monday’s Ballon d’Or announcement is a straight fight between
 Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi – but there’s only one winner. The forme
r Portugal international, who played for both Real Madrid and Barcelona, says hi
s fellow countryman Ronaldo ‘has to’ retain his crown. And, rather amusingly
, Figo claims the pair are the ‘truffles and caviar’ of world football. Cris
tiano Ronaldo should win the Ballon d'Or for a second year running, according to
 Luis Figo . Former Portugal international Figo says Ronaldo and Lionel Messi ar
e the 'truffles and caviar' of world football . Messi has won the Ballon d'Or fo
ur times out of the last five years for his performances for Barcelona . Messi w
as in fine form and on the scoresheet as Barcelona beat Elche 5-0 in the Copa de
l Rey on Thursday . Ronaldo, whose goals last season fired Real to a first Champ
ions League title since 2002, is the favourite to beat both Messi and World Cup 
winner Manuel Neuer. ‘It's hard to choose between truffles and caviar, but for
 me it has to be Cristiano. He’s had a fantastic year all the way through for 
Real,’ Figo said. Neuer – the sweeper goalkeeper to have captured the imagin
ation long before the summer tournament in Brazil – would become the first sto
pper to claim the prize since Lev Yashin 52 years ago. And while Figo is insiste
nt Ronaldo will take the gong, he does understand the clamour for Neuer. ‘I kn
ow Germany won the World Cup and I understand there are those who think Neuer, w
ho is such a great keeper and was a big part of their success, should win it,’
 he added. Figo says he understands why there is a clamour for Bayern Munich goa
lkeeper Manuel Neuer to win . Germany goalkeeper Neuer (left) celebrates winning
 the World Cup with Bastian Schweinsteiger last year . Neuer saves a shot from F
rance striker Karim Benzema during the World Cup in Brazil last summer . Messi w
ill be there without the Barcelona president Josep Bartomeu, who is to boycott t
he ceremony in protest at the transfer ban imposed upon the club by FIFA. The Ca
talans are not allowed to make any signings in the next two transfer windows bec
ause of a breach of rules relating to the signing of international players under
 the age of 18. 'FIFA has not told us who made the original charge and during th
e period of the sanction we will not maintain any institutional relations with t
hem,' Bartomeu said. 'I have sent a stern letter to Sepp Blatter and I will not 
be attending the FIFA Ballon d'Or gala set for January 12.' Barcelona president 
Josep Bartomeu will not attend the ceremony after being slapped with a transfer 
ban . Luis Figo was speaking at the launch of his new social media platform 'Net
work 90'.