A woman in China has been slammed online after she prevented firefighters from b
reaking the window of her luxury car in order to rescue her trapped three-year-o
ld son. 
  
 China's state broadcaster CCTV reported that the incident, which occurred in th
e city of Yiwu in Zhejiang province last Saturday (July 11), triggered an outpou
ring of anger on social media. 
  
 Large crowds had gathered after hearing the boy's cries of help coming from wit
hin the BMW, but were surprised to find his unperturbed mother standing outside 
the car. 
  
 With the boy growing visibly weaker as he clawed in vain against the car window
, firefighters attempted to break the window but were stopped by the mother. 
  
 An eyewitness said the mother insisted that they wait for a locksmith to unlock
 the car door as she did not want to damage the car. But the firefighters ignore
d her and ended up smashing the window to rescue her son. 
  
 "It is very dangerous to leave kids inside the car, especially in such heat," o
ne firefighter was quoted as saying. 
  
 "The temperature inside the car can soar in a very short time and threaten the 
child's life." 
  
 Netizens expressed shock and disgust at the woman's actions. 
  
 One wrote sarcastically: "Looks like the car window is her real son." ||||| BMW
 logos are displayed on a production line in Berlin. Reuters 
  
 This post has been updated since it was first published. See note below. 
  
 China‚Äôs Internet has lit up with debate this week after reports of a mother w
ho left her young son alone in her BMW ‚Äì then refused to smash the luxury car‚
Äôs windows in order to rescue him from the heat. 
  
 The mother, who has not been named in Chinese news reports, has since denied th
at she opposed smashing the window and says that she tried to break it herself, 
to no avail. 
  
 Advertisement 
  
 The incident took place last Saturday night, when firefighters in the city of Y
iwu in coastal Zhejiang province received a call alerting them that a child was 
locked inside a BMW, according to the Zhejiang Online provincial news site. 
  
 When the firefighters arrived, they found a young boy sitting in the driver‚Äôs
 seat of the car, crying and prying at the glass, the report said, citing one of
 the rescuers. The child had already been trapped in the car for about an hour, 
it said, and two locksmiths were already at work trying to open the door, while 
a large crowd was gathered around watching. 
  
 According to Zhejiang Online, the firefighters began to negotiate with the chil
d‚Äôs mother, who urged them to wait for the locksmiths to open the door. After 
several minutes they were still unsuccessful, and the crowd began to condemn the
 mother. Finally, the report said, the firefighters insisted on smashing the gla
ss, saving the frightened child. 
  
 Days after the initial report, the mother told the Qianjiang Evening News that 
the incident had been misunderstood. In an interview published Wednesday, she sa
id that she had tried to break the window using a stone and hammer, and then cal
led the police after her efforts failed. She maintained that she had hoped the l
ocksmiths could open the door as the breaking glass could frighten or injure her
 17-month-old son trapped inside. 
  
 The Hangzhou-based newspaper also quoted a firefighter who defended the mother 
and said the confusion could have arisen because she ‚Äúdidn‚Äôt say anything‚Äù
 when he initially asked for permission to break the window. 
  
 Photos posted online by the website showed large crowds of onlookers blocking a
 main street as they gathered around a fire engine and the black luxury car. 
  
 On China‚Äôs Weibo microblogs ‚Äì where reports of the incident had received mo
re than 7.6 million views as of Thursday afternoon ‚Äì users responded with fury
 to the initial report, with many arguing that the mother‚Äôs behavior was an ex
ample of values gone awry in modern China. 
  
 ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs clear that for this mother, a car is more important than her child,‚Ä
ù one Weibo user wrote. 
  
 ‚ÄúLeaving a child trapped in a car on such a hot summer day, and then refusing
 to smash the window? Do you really want your child to suffocate?‚Äù wrote anoth
er. 
  
 Remarked another: ‚ÄúIf you encounter this kind of situation, the answer is sim
ple: First smash up the parents, then smash the glass.‚Äù 
  
 After the mother‚Äôs defense, however, some users directed their rage at the me
dia, arguing that the tale was only the latest case of a news story being blown 
out of proportion. 
  
 ‚ÄúSome journalists know that ‚ÄòDog Bites Man‚Äô isn‚Äôt really news, so they 
try to rewrite it as ‚ÄòMan Bites Dog,‚Äô‚Äù one Weibo user wrote Thursday morni
ng. ‚ÄúIn the end they just cause a big stir.‚Äù 
  
 China has experienced dazzling economic growth in recent years, and with it has
 come soul-searching over whether public values have now shifted toward the purs
uit of material wealth at any cost. 
  
 Owners of glitzy cars have become a particular scourge, with 80% of respondents
 in a Hurun Research Institute survey last year saying that they had heard negat
ive news reports involving drivers of luxury vehicles. 70% of the bad publicity 
was related to BMW owners, the survey said. 
  
 ‚ÄìFelicia Sonmez. Follow her on Twitter @feliciasonmez. 
  
 (Note: This post has been updated to include comments from the mother and local
 rescuers in news reports published Wednesday, and subsequent reactions among so
cial media users.) 
  
 Sign up for CRT‚Äôs daily newsletter to get the latest headlines by email. 
  
  
  
 For the latest news and analysis, follow @ChinaRealTime 
  
  
  
  ||||| Chinese drivers of BMW cars are seen as newly rich, materialistic showof
fs by drivers of other luxury brands. Yet such owners consider themselves relati
vely discreet entrepreneurs with a positive outlook on life. 
  
 That‚Äôs just one of the findings of a survey of luxury car owners in China pub
lished Wednesday. 
  
 The survey, conducted by wealth research firm Hurun Research Institute, compare
d the images of eight foreign luxury brands vying for a spot in the country‚Äôs 
luxury car market, which is widely expected to overtake the U.S. to become the w
orld‚Äôs biggest in the next few years. 
  
 But an anticorruption drive by the Chinese government is changing how those liv
ing the high life are perceived by a Chinese public that increasingly frowns on 
ostentatious displays of wealth. 
  
 According to the report, 80% of all respondents had heard negative news about l
uxury car owners, which in years past have included a famous 2011 incident in wh
ich one BMW owner, son of a famous military singer, attacked a couple during a r
oad rage episode. Of the bad publicity, 70% was related to BMW owners. 
  
 The survey didn‚Äôt list similar statistics for other brands. 
  
 BMW didn‚Äôt respond to requests for comment Wednesday. 
  
 One hundred car owners for each of the eight brands were surveyed in selected c
ities across China between February and October. Respondents, of which three-qua
rters were male, had an average age of 33.5 years and average family income of j
ust over 1 million yuan, or around $175,000. 
  
 The survey found that Audi has the most clearly defined image of all brands, wi
th owners seen as mature, experienced government officials. For some prospective
 luxury car buyers this can translate into, well, kind of boring. Audi says the 
days of its brand being closely associated with Chinese bureaucrats have passed 
and that its image has undergone a transformation toward more vitality. 
  
 Of the leading three German brands that dominate China‚Äôs market, the self-ima
ge of those who drive Daimler‚Äôs Mercedes-Benz aligns very closely with how dri
vers of other luxury cars perceive them‚Äînamely, as successful, cultured entrep
reneurs. 
  
 For what it‚Äôs worth, Mercedes drivers also had the highest income among parti
cipants. 
  
 The image of more recent entrants into China‚Äôs luxury car market is also beco
ming more defined. 
  
 Jaguar Land Rover‚Äôs sport-utility drivers are seen as young showoffs with new
 money, the survey found. Land Rover owners had the lowest level of education am
ong survey participants. JLR said Land Rover caters to a broad range of customer
s in China with diverse backgrounds. 
  
 General Motor‚Äôs Cadillac drivers were seen as mature and successful (so much 
for that young, trendy image GM has been spending heavily to cultivate for the b
rand‚Äîfrom hiring actor Brad Pitt for advertising campaigns to hosting glamorou
s launch parties on Shanghai‚Äôs iconic Bund and sponsoring funky art installati
ons.) 
  
 Infiniti drivers were seen as glitzy, glamorous movie-star types whom China Rea
l Time reckons probably need to wait tables by day‚ÄìInfiniti owners had the low
est income among those surveyed. Infiniti said it targets young-minded premium c
ustomers. 
  
 As for Volvo? Drivers of the Chinese-owned Swedish brand are seen as‚Äîyawn‚Äìh
ighly educated, valuable members of society who are family-oriented and morally 
upright. 
  
 ‚ÄìRose Yu and Colum Murphy 
  
 Note: This item has been updated to reflect comment from Jaguar Land Rover. 
  
 _____________________________________ 
  
 Also popular on China Real Time now: 
  
 China‚Äôs Over-Reliance on Guaranteed Loans, in 3 Charts 
  
 As China Cracks Down on Illegal Videos, Lovers of Foreign TV Mourn |||||