By . Daily Mail Reporter and Associated Press . PUBLISHED: . 16:17 EST, 18 March
 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 16:34 EST, 18 March 2013 . A lawyer for a woman who says 
Michael Jordan fathered her teenage son has withdrawn her paternity suit, but le
ft open the possibility that it could be refiled. Pamela Smith 'stands by the fa
cts alleged in her original filing,' Atlanta attorney Randall Kessler told The A
ssociated Press today. Kessler said the lawsuit was withdrawn on Friday without 
prejudice, meaning it can be refiled. Scroll down for video . Claim: Pamela Smit
h, left, has withdrawn her paternity case against basketball legend Michael Jord
an, right . 'Father and son': Mr Jordan with Taj, who claims to be the son of th
e former sports star . Smith filed the suit herself last month against Jordan an
d asked that the basketball hall of famer take a paternity test and pay child su
pport. She later hired Kessler's firm. Jordan has denied that he's the father of
 Smith's 16-year-old son. A lawyer for the majority owner of the NBA's Charlotte
 Bobcats has said Smith's divorce filings established her ex-husband as the fath
er. Jordan's spokeswoman Estee Portnoy on Monday confirmed that Smith dismissed 
the paternity suit. Portnoy said there was no settlement or money paid to Smith.
 She said the lawsuit had no merit. Sued: Jordan, pictured watching his Charlott
e Bobcats, was embroiled in a paternity case, which has now been withdrawn . Kes
sler previously said the ex-husband hasn't paid child support or been involved i
n the teen's life. Smith 'began this case without an attorney and did her best t
o file what she believed to be a legally appropriate case,' Kessler said in a st
atement. 'She then hired our firm just before the first court appearance. Ms. Sm
ith has relied on our advice and determined that dismissal at this time, without
 prejudice, is in her son's best interests.' The . teen, who uses the surname Jo
rdan, has in the past taken to the . internet to insist that the former Chicago 
Bulls star is his father. According to TMZ, the woman was . hesitant to bring Jo
rdan's name through the mud but her teenage son . begged his mother do everythin
g she could to get Jordan to acknowledge . that the boy was his son. Heyday: The
 basketball legend is seen playing for the Chicago Bulls during his heyday in 19
88 . Video: The teenager has taken to YouTube to insist that his father is the f
amous athlete . Affection: Taj, an aspiring rapper based in Georgia, is pictured
 with his mother . Jordan is scheduled is marry fiancée Yvette Prieto next mont
h . The star remains one of the most . recognized sports figures in the world ne
arly 10 years after his . retirement from the NBA and is considered by many to b
e the greatest basketball player of all time. He was a 14-time NBA all-star, won
 six championships with the Chicago Bulls and was named the finals MVP six times
. On March 17, 2010, the NBA Board of . Governors unanimously approved Jordan's 
purchase of the Bobcats, making . him the first former NBA player ever to become
 the majority owner of a . league franchise. This is not the first time he has b
een . the subject of a paternity suit - in 1991, his former lover Karla Knafel .
 claimed the star was the father of her child, but a DNA test proved . that this
 was not the case. Appeal: Taj has said he wants Mr Jordan to be more involved w
ith his life . Engaged: Jordan is pictured with his fiancée Yvette Prieto, whom
 he is set to marry next month . Watch the video of Taj claiming to be Michael J
ordan's son .