By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 13:11 EST, 7 February 2014 . | . UPDATED
: . 18:29 EST, 7 February 2014 . A newborn who vanished from a southern Wisconsi
n home was found alive in a tote bag this morning at a gas station in eastern Io
wa. Town of Beloit Police Chief Steven Kopp says the nearly week-old Kayden Powe
ll was discovered by the police chief of West Branch, Iowa, checking along Inter
state 80 at around 10.15am Friday. FBI acting special agent G.B. Jones said at a
 news conference the chief heard the infant crying and discovered the child swad
dled in blankets and placed in a tote bag outside a gas station. Scroll down for
 video . Safe and sound: Six-day-old Kayden Powell is pictured here Friday after
 he was found alive in West Branch, Iowa, swaddled in blankets and placed . insi
de a tote bag against the cold . Missing: Kayden Powell, now six days old, . dis
appeared from his bassinet in the early hours of Thursday at a home . in Beloit,
 Wisconsin . Birth: Brianna Marshall, 18, gave birth Kayden at Beloit Hospital w
hile his father, Bruce Powell, 23, was present . Authorities say baby Kayden app
ears to be in 'excellent health' despite the frigid temperatures. 'Our efforts a
re clearly focused on reuniting mother and child and the rest of the family memb
ers with the child. That's the immediate focus. In fact we're taking steps right
 now to make sure that happens,' Jones said. Person of interest: Police in Iowa 
arrested . Kristin Smith, who is believed to be a stepsister of the baby's mothe
r, . on unrelated fraud charges . Federal, . state and local law enforcement off
icers had been looking for the baby . since early Thursday when his mother, 18-y
ear-old Brianna Marshall, . discovered him missing from a bassinet in a Town of 
Beloit home. Officers have arrested 'person of . interest' Kristen Smith, who is
 believed to be a stepsister of Miss . Marshall, several hours later in the neig
hboring state of Iowa. The . woman is no longer considered as suspect in the cas
e but is being held . on separate fraud charges. Authorities questioned a number
 of people, including Miss Powell, 18, Kayden's . father Bruce Powell, 23, Miss 
Powell's brother and Kayden's great-grandmother - all of whom who were in the ho
use . when the baby was discovered missing early Thursday morning. Miss Marshall
 and Mr Powell, were . sleeping in the same room as their son when they discover
ed he was missing at about 4.30am. Right place, right time: Authorities gather a
t a gas station in West Branch, Iowa, where a missing newborn was found alive Fr
iday when the local police chief heard a baby crying . Search: Forty officers fr
om law enforcement agencies have now joined in the search for missing Kayden . P
arents: Miss Marshall, pictured with Mr Powell, discovered her newborn baby had 
vanished from their home in the Town of Beloit, Wisconsin, at 4.30am. The couple
 had been sleeping in the same room as their son, Kayden . Miss Marshall then ra
ised the alarm by calling 911, said Chief Kopp. Police said there were no signs 
of forced entry at the house. A 'person of interest' - believed to be a stepsist
er of Miss Marshall - was . arrested Thursday afternoon in Iowa on a warrant iss
ued out of Texas, but police have . since said she is not a suspect in the child
's disappearance. Kristin . Smith was arrested in West Branch on fraud charges a
fter a warrant was . put out for her arrest in Texas. Arrest: 'Person of interes
t' Kristin Smith was arrested in West Branch, Iowa on separate fraud charges on 
Thursday. She is no longer considered a person of interest in the missing baby c
ase . Scene: Baby Kayden was snatched from his crib at this Wisconsin home yeste
rday morning. Police say there were no signs of forced entry at the house, which
 is currently being processed as a crime scene . She claims to be Miss Marshall'
s half-sister, with the women sharing the . same father. The women had reportedl
y discussed moving to Colorado, . along with Mr Powell, after the baby was born.
 Alert: Miss Marshall called 911 after awaking at 4.30am and finding her newborn
 son was missing . Chief . Kopp confirmed that Smith left the home around 1.30am
 Thursday - before Miss Marshall reported that Kayden was missing. Kopp said tha
t Smith was visiting the home on Wednesday evening but left early on Thursday fo
r Colorado where she lives. Police were able to reach the woman on her cellphone
 and she pulled off the highway in Iowa. Authorities took the woman into custody
 on an unrelated outstanding warrant from Texas. West Branch, Iowa, is 170miles 
from Beloit - roughly a two-and-a-half-hour drive away. The . homeowner of the p
roperty where Kayden and his parents were staying is listed as . 46-year-old Mar
k Bennett, who has a history of arrests for battery and . criminal misdemeanors.
 Chief Kopp says the incident is not . believed to be a custody dispute - adding
 that an Amber Alert was not . issued because the disappearance doesn't meet the
 criteria. An Amber Alert is only issued if the child is at risk of serious inju
ry . or death and there is sufficient descriptive information of the child, . ca
ptor or captor's vehicle. Kayden was born at Beloit Memorial Hospital six days a
go. The Town of Beloit, home to about 7,700 people, is about 50 miles south of M
adison near the Illinois border.