A glitch on the United Airlines website saw travellers offered return, first cla
ss flights from London to Newark for just $74 (£49). The round-trip first class
 tickets from Heathrow to Newark, just outside of New York City, were snatched u
p by lucky holidaymakers for just 491 Danish krone due to an apparent error on t
he site. By registering as a customer in Denmark, holidaymakers could snap up th
e deal, which would normally set them back $5,618 (£3,690) and $6,778 (£4,452)
. For a brief period of time on February 11, round-trip, first class fares from 
London to Newark were available on United.com for just £49 . It is unclear how 
the deal happened and it appears United has since made changes to prevent anyone
 else from purchasing the cheap tickets. One customer who snapped up the bargain
 fare said she simply logged on to United.com and changed her country status to 
Denmark. She then chose her dates and made sure to select business class or firs
t class from the drop down menu, for example March 19 to March 25. Then, using a
 credit card without a foreign transaction fee, the purchase was completed and a
 confirmation email sent, although the customer did say she left her country as 
'Denmark' when filling out her postal address. The unbelievable fare totalled 49
1 Danish krone, which comes to £49 or approximately US$74 . Despite the low cos
ts, two customers reported 'miscellaneous' charges when they came to play, addin
g up to $326 (£214) to the price of the ticket. It is not known what these cost
s represent, but both customers said they were happy to pay as the price still w
orked out much cheaper than a full price first class ticket. MailOnline Travel a
ttempted to secure the same deal at approximately 16:20 GMT, but found that sele
cting Denmark from the country drop down menu was no longer an option. A second 
customer secured first class transatlantic flights for a total of 1,356DKK - aro
und $206 or £135 . The country option was then turned back to United Kingdom. I
t is as yet unclear how many people snapped up the flights during the time of th
e glitch and whether the airline will honour the bookings. According to a statem
ent provided to MailOnline Travel: 'United has temporarily suspended sales from 
its Denmark website because a third-party software provider applied an incorrect
 exchange rate and was misquoting the airline’s properly filed fares. 'This er
ror in the application of the exchange rate primarily impacted individuals who l
ive outside of Denmark and who were not traveling to or from Denmark but were at
tempting to book tickets using United’s Denmark site.'