By . Associated Press . and Daily Mail Reporter . A sailor has been shot dead on
 a guided-missile destroyer while docked at a Virginia naval base and security f
orces killed the suspect in the aftermath. The names of the sailor and the suspe
ct have not been released while the Navy contacts their families. The suspect wa
s a civilian who had access to be at Naval Station Norfolk, spokeswoman Terri Da
vis said early Tuesday. Scroll down for video . Security threat on board: A male
 sailor was shot by another man, a civilian, who was able to gain access to the 
USS Mahan on Monday night and the suspect was shot dead by security forces later
 (pictured in 2004) Base: A number of destroyers are regularly docked at the Nor
folk Navy Base, including air craft carriers like the USS Eisenhower, USS George
 H.W. Bush, USS Truman and USS Lincoln, all pictured there in 2012 . She said sh
e couldn't say whether he had permission to be on the USS Mahan, where the male 
sailor was shot about 11.20pm Monday. No other injuries were reported, and the b
ase was briefly on lockdown, according to the Navy. Davis would not describe any
 other circumstances of the shooting but said the scene was secure. Operations h
ave returned to normal at the base, with counselors available, the Navy said in 
a news release. Regardless . of the shooting, most enlisted sailors on the Mahan
 — docked at the . first of 13 main piers — were not to report to duty Tuesd
ay. Base . traffic was typical Tuesday morning. The . shooting on the Mahan come
s about a month after the Navy held . anti-terrorism and force protection exerci
ses on bases around the U.S., . including an active-shooter drill at the Norfolk
 station. Drill: Just last month, the Norfolk Naval Base held anti-terror drills
 (pictured) as did Navy bases across the country . To . get on the base, civilia
ns must be escorted or have a pass. Each base . entrance is guarded, and all 13 
piers have additional security forces. As part of ongoing security efforts, hand
held ID scanners were . implemented this year at Navy bases in the region, inclu
ding the Norfolk . station. The shooting comes . six months after a September in
cident at the Washington Navy Yard, in . which a gunman — identified as a cont
ractor and former Navy reservist — . killed 12 civilian workers before being s
hot to death. The . Norfolk base covers more than 6,000 acres and is the home po
rt for 64 . ships, according to information the Navy provided in February. About
 . 46,000 military members and 21,000 civilian government employees and . contra
ctors are assigned to the base and its ships, according to the . Navy figures. E
arlier drills: The Norfolk Naval Base just ran anti-terrorism drills last month 
that included an active-shooter drill (guards pictured at the base entrance in 2
004) The base also is the home port for a Navy hospital ship, docked at Pier 1 w
ith the Mahan. In . February, the Norfolk base got a new commanding officer, Cap
t. Robert . E. Clark Jr. He took over for Capt. David A. Culler Jr., who was set
 to . retire in May. Clark had served as the installation's executive officer . 
since 2012. The Mahan, . commissioned in 1998, has a crew of nearly 300. In Sept
ember, it . returned to Norfolk after a deployment of more than eight months tha
t . included being positioned in the eastern Mediterranean Sea for a . potential
 strike against Syria.