By . Sarah Bridge . PUBLISHED: . 09:33 EST, 4 November 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 10:
02 EST, 4 November 2013 . No-one ever said that being a celebrity was a dog's li
fe. But the Battersea Dogs and Cats Home in south London is raising money by auc
tioning off a dog-walking experience with a whole host of dog-loving celebrities
, including supermodel David Gandy, Oscar-winning actor Jeremy Irons and Saturda
ys singer and style icon Mollie King. Also getting their collars and leads ready
 for the exclusive one-on-one outings is Britain's Got Talent's Amanda Holden, a
dventurer, presenter and animal campaigner Ben Fogle, fashionista and model Dais
y Lowe as well dance supremo Ashley Banjo and radio DJ Neil Fox, the proud owner
 of Battersea dog Bonzo. Dog-lover David Gandy, with Battersea dog Staffordshire
 bull terrier Coco Bean, says he can often be found helping out at the south Lon
don dogs and cats home . However the celebrities with have to get used sharing t
he limelight with the the real stars of the day, the four-legged friends from Ba
ttersea who will be joining in the star-studded walkies, showing off their lovea
ble traits and stealing attention from their dog walkers wherever possible. High
est bidders in the auction at www.collarsandcoats.org.uk/ebay will win a full ha
lf hour with their favourite dog-loving celebrity, and the walks will take place
 in nearby Battersea Park, close to the iconic south London rescue that has care
d for 3.1 million dogs and cats since it was opened in 1860. The online auction 
starts today and runs until midnight on Friday 8 November. It is being launched 
to support the charity’s annual Collars and Coats Gala Ball, a spectacular eve
nt bursting with glitz and glamour which raises money to enable Battersea to car
e for thousands of lost and abandoned dogs and cats. Now in its fifth year, this
 year’s Hollywood themed event will be hosted by Battersea Ambassadors Amanda 
Holden and Paul O’Grady. Saturday's singer and style icon Mollie King, picture
d with her maltipoo dog Alfie, is one of nine celebrities putting themselves up 
for auction in aid of Battersea Dogs and Cats home . Holden is looking forward t
o her walk with some Battersea dogs. She said, 'It is such an honour for me to b
e supporting Battersea at the Collars and Coats Gala Ball again this year. As a 
Battersea Ambassador I want to support the charity in any way I can and all the 
money raised through the auction will help more deserving animals find new lovin
g homes. I am really excited about going on my walkies with a couple of gorgeous
 Battersea dogs and a lucky winner.' One of the most popular dog-walking celebri
ties is a dog himself. Pudsey won Britain's Got Talent last year with his owner 
Ashleigh Butler, and has since performed for the Queen. Ashleigh and Pudsey on 
their way to winning Britain's Got Talent 2012 . Said Ashleigh: 'Every dog deser
ves a loving home and Battersea does a fantastic job helping lost and abandoned 
dogs. Pudsey and I are going to do our bit by taking part in Battersea’s eBay 
dog walk auction and help raise as much money as we can for homeless dogs. It’
s such a fun way to raise awareness of a great cause.' Fans of television presen
ter Ben Fogle will love the chance to take a stroll with the adventuror and anim
al lover, who famously met his wife Marina while they were both walking their do
gs in London's Hyde Park. Said Ben: 'As a dog lover, I whole-heartedly support B
attersea’s fantastic work and so it’s an absolute honour to be able to raise
 much needed funds. The dogs deserve every penny we raise and I’m really looki
ng forward to my walk with a very special rescue pup and an eBay winner.' Amanda
 Holden, with a Battersea dog, is one of nine celebrities putting themselves up 
for auction . DJ Neil Fox and his beloved pet Bonzo, a former Battersea dog . Mo
del and fashion designer Daisy Lowe is often photographed walking her dog. Daisy
 said,  'My dog Monty means the absolute world to me, so to be able to support 
Battersea in giving a second chance to lost and abandoned dogs is an absolute jo
y.' Claire Horton, Battersea’s chief executive said, 'It is such a fantastic a
uction prize, with so many wonderful famous faces getting involved and showing t
heir love for our four-legged friends. It’s what walkies dreams are made of an
d best of all, all money raised will help the thousands of homeless dogs, and ca
ts, we care for every year.' To find out more and to bid go to www.collarsandcoa
ts.org.uk/ebay .