Washington (CNN) -- South Carolina officials head to federal court on Monday to 
defend a controversial new voter identification law, dismissing suggestions the 
requirement would deny tens of thousands of people, many of them minorities, acc
ess to the ballot. A weeklong trial will kick off in Washington before a panel o
f three judges who will decide whether the law should take effect. It is one of 
several legal challenges to voter identification laws nationwide. A key enforcem
ent provision of the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965, gives the federal gover
nment open-ended oversight of states and communities with a history of voter dis
crimination. Any changes in voting laws and procedures in those areas must be "p
re-cleared" with Washington. South Carolina Attorney General Alan Wilson has def
ended the law, saying it will not harm any potential voter. "The changes have ne
ither the purpose nor will they have the effect of denying or abridging the righ
t to vote on account of race, color, or membership in a language minority," Wils
on said. The Justice Department blocked the measure from taking effect last year
, concluding it was discriminatory. Federal officials cited figures that registe
red minority voters were about 20 percent more likely than white voters to lack 
state-issued photo identification. The Justice Department estimated that more th
an 80,000 people in South Carolina could be adversely impacted by the planned re
quirements. Republican Gov. Nikki Haley has called the Justice Department's deci
sion "outrageous" and ordered a lawsuit. State officials have deflected criticis
m the legal battle could end up costing taxpayers $1 million or more. "It wouldn
't cost anything if (U.S. Attorney General) Eric Holder and the Department of Ju
stice would get out of the way and let us protect our citizens and enforce our l
aws," Rob Godfrey, a spokesman for Haley, said earlier this year. A decision in 
the case could take weeks. In legal filings with the court, South Carolina offic
ials said a law dating to 1988 requires a state-issued voter registration card a
nd the voter's signature at the polls. The amended law approved last year would 
permit five types of photo identification: a state-issued driver's license, a no
n-driver identification card issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles, militar
y identification, a U.S. passport, or state voter registration card. Waivers are
 allowed, but the voter must sign an affidavit specifying why she or he has a "r
easonable impediment" to getting the necessary identification or has a religious
 objection to being photographed. If the law takes effect, South Carolina would 
be among 11 states that require official photo identification at the polls, acco
rding to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Proponents say the drive
 is an effort to stop what officials contend is voter fraud and to purge voter r
olls of outdated information. Supporters say having valid, government-issued pho
to identification is a reasonable, modern-day necessity. Opponents assert that t
he effort disenfranchise poor, minority and disabled voters. Obama administratio
n officials have concluded there is little evidence of voter fraud in the state 
warranting the legislative changes. A coalition of civil rights groups is expect
ed to testify at next week's hearing, offering testimony from college students a
nd elderly residents. Those groups say claims of voter fraud are exaggerated. "S
outh Carolina's photo ID measure is a solution in search of a problem. Credible 
studies show that one is more likely to be struck by lightning than to perceive 
an instance of in-person voter fraud," Ryan Haygood, a top lawyer at the NAACP's
 Legal Defense Fund, said. "The [upcoming] trial will make clear that the state'
s proposed photo identification measure will have a significant impact on its mi
nority voters." The NAACP says that a quarter of African-Americans and 16 percen
t of Latinos nationally lack any kind of government-issued photo identification.
 A separate federal panel is considering similar challenge to a voter identifica
tion law in Texas. A federal trial was held last month and a ruling is expected 
soon. Both South Carolina and Texas say they will put their laws in place in tim
e for the November elections, if they are upheld. It is possible the losing side
s could ask the U.S. Supreme Court to intervene, delaying any immediate implemen
tation. Other Republican-controlled states with similar laws under legal challen
ge include Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Mississippi, and Tennessee. The Ju
stice Department this week gave approval to Virginia's less restrictive voter id
entification measure. North Carolina Gov. Beverly Perdue vetoed a law passed by 
the GOP-led General Assembly. The Supreme Court in 2008 allowed Indiana's voter 
identification law to stand in 2008, saying the stated goal of stopping voter fr
aud was a legitimate exercise of legislative power.