By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 06:52 EST, 3 September 2012 . | . UPDATE
D: . 08:09 EST, 3 September 2012 . An 82-year-old woman who has a criminal recor
d stretching back to 1955 is back behind bars after being accused of raiding a s
tring of doctors' offices. Doris Thompson, who has had 25 aliases over her 55-ye
ar crime spree, is facing possible charges over eight burglaries in Torrance, Ca
lifornia. Torrance Police Sgt Robert Watt claims Thompson would enter medical of
fices and hide until closing before searching for the keys to the cash box. It i
s said she made off with around $17,000. Career criminal: 82-year-old Doris Thom
pson (pictured) is facing her latest charges in a crime spree that dates back to
 1955 . The pensioner was arrested after a detective recognised her distinctive 
wiry grey hair, which has been likened to that of boxing promoter Don King, on a
 video that allegedly caught her in the act. She is being held on $80,000 bail a
fter being arrested at an El Segundo hotel, it was reported on KTLA.com. More...
 Couple arrested after suspected burglars were shot at their rural home 'had bee
n robbed three or four times' Talk about sticky fingers! Brazen thieves steal up
 to $30 MILLION worth of maple syrup (but what are they going to do with it?) Th
ompson has a 20-page rap sheet which starts with her first-known arrest in 1955 
for disturbing the peace. Since then, she has been apprehended 34 times, convict
ed of several thefts and a forgery. Unmistakeable: Thompson was arrested after a
 detective recognised her allegedly caught in the act on security video because 
of her distinctive wiry grey hair, which has been likened to that of famous boxi
ng promoter Don King (above) According to Thompson has been imprisoned at least 
nine times for burglary in Los Angeles and Orange counties. She even managed a p
rison escape, in 1984, while serving a 30-day term. Her . last offence was two y
ears ago when she was caught prying open drawers . with a screwdriver at the Chi
ldren's Medical Group before taking $400 in . cash and checks, and a plastic uri
ne container with a total value of . about $1,400. 'Made off with $17,000': Offi
cers at Torrance Police (above) claim Thompson would enter medical offices and h
ide until closing before searching for the keys to the cash box . After pleading
 guilty, she thanked the judge for sentencing her to three years in prison. Refe
rring to her criminal strategy at the time, Los Angeles County Deputy District A
ttorney Paulette Paccione said: 'That's her M.O. 'What she does is she goes in w
ith her little burglar bag. She takes cash, stamps, whatever she can find.'