Jon Huntsman couldn't help but fire a parting shot at his Republican rivals, eve
n as he withdrew from the presidential race and backed front-runner Mitt Romney 
Monday morning. 'This race has degenerated into an onslaught of negative and per
sonal attacks not worthy of the American people and not worthy of this critical 
time,' he said during an announcement in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. Huntsman,
 a former Utah governor and the President Obama's ambassador to China, must now 
navigate the tricky waters of supporting a candidate he slammed as an unelectabl
e, untrustworthy flip-flopper. Shortly after Huntsman told his staff . Sunday ni
ght he was planning to quit the presidential race, videos and . statements criti
cizing the former Massachusetts governor disappeared . from Huntsman's campaign 
website. Family affair: Four of Jon Huntsman's daughters, including his adopted 
Chinese daughter Gracie Mei, stood on stage with him and his wife Mary Kaye (in 
the purple) today . Exit: Jon Huntsman leaves the stage after his announcement t
his morning, flanked by his daughter Mary Anne (left) and his wife Mary Kaye (ri
ght) Bowing out: Huntsman's presidential bid never gained traction and floundere
d after a disappointing performance in New Hampshire . As an opponent, Huntsman 
was one of Romney's harshest critics, offering several devastating assessments o
f the front-runner in an attempt to win over Romney's moderate supporters. 'I wi
ll always put my country first. It . seems that Gov Romney believes in putting p
olitics first. Gov Romney . enjoys firing people; I enjoy creating jobs. It may 
be that he’s . slightly out of touch with the economic reality playing out in 
America . right now, and that’s a dangerous place to be,' he told reporters ri
ght . before the New Hampshire primary. Lest anyone forget Huntsman's harsh word
s, the Democratic National Committee produced a greatest hits list of the most c
utting remarks by the former candidate. Big gains: Hours after the announcement,
 Mitt Romney thanked Huntsman for his support and praised his campaign . Plea fo
r unity: Flanked by his family, Huntsman criticized the divisive tone of the Rep
ublican race and said the party needs to unite . And Huntsman's endorsement of R
omney was no ringing embrace. Instead, he simply cited Romney's electability. Jo
n Huntsman's campaign pulled down statements critical of Mitt Romney as he moved
 to endorse the Republican front-runner. However, the Democratic National Commit
tee won't let Huntsman forget what he said. It has released a list of his greate
st Mitt-hits: . 'I believe it is now time for our party . to unite around the ca
ndidate best equipped to defeat Barack Obama. Despite our differences I believe 
that candidate is Gov Mitt Romney,' Huntsman said at a news conference with his 
wife and children. Huntsman staked his presidential bid . on making a name for h
imself in last week's New Hampshire primary. But . his candidacy never really ga
ined traction and he came in a . disappointing third place behind Romney and Tex
as Rep Ron Paul. Campaign sources said Huntsman was dropping out now because he 
didn't want to pull support away from Romney, which could prolong the GOP presid
ential primary. Romney gladly accepted the affirmation from his fellow Mormon. '
I salute Jon Huntsman & his wife Mary Kaye. He ran a campaign based on unity not
 division, & love of country. I appreciate his support,' the candidate Tweeted m
oments after the public announcement. Despite his low support from voters, Hunts
man's departure will surely be a boon to Romney. He was only polling at three to
 five percent in South Carolina and Florida, the next two primary states, but he
 was the only candidate still competing for moderate voters who are the backbone
 of Romney's support. According to recent polls, nearly all of Huntsman's suppor
ters said Romney was their second choice. This further consolidates the establis
hment wing of the Republican party. Conservative voters are still divided betwee
n former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich 
and, to a lesser extent, Texas Gov Rick Perry. Huntsman is the third candidate t
o leave . the race. Former Minnesota Gov Tim Pawlenty exited in August and . Min
nesota Rep Michele Bachmann dropped out after a poor showing in the . Iowa caucu
s. By his side: Huntsman made the announcement in South Carolina with his family
, including his wife Mary Kaye . Waving farewell: Huntsman said he was ending hi
s presidential bid because he believes Romney is the best choice to beat Preside
nt Obama . Despite strong credentials -- an attractive, highly-educated former g
overnor and businessman who speaks Mandarin Chinese and has extensive foreign po
licy experience -- Huntsman never rose above single digits in national polls. He
 staked his campaign on a victory, or at least a strong showing, in moderate New
 Hampshire. But the granite state didn't show him the love he was hoping for. He
 received just 17 percent of the vote compared to Mitt Romney's dominant 39 perc
ent. Ron Paul came in second with 23 percent. New Jersey Gov Chris Christie turn
ed down a Republican movement urging him to run for president this year, but he 
hasn't ruled out the possibility in the future. He told Oprah Winfrey during her
 visit to his home in Mendham, New Jersey, that he was considering running in 20
16. 'I'll be much more ready for it four years from now than I am now,' he said.
 Christie says he can see his family occupying the White House in the future. Th
e 49-year-old former US Attorney told Oprah he and his wife seriously considered
 the calls to run for president against Barack Obama, but ultimately he felt com
fortable turning them down. 'Inside me it never felt right. I knew that if it di
dn't feel right, I couldn't be me,' he said.