Their faces are etched with deep lines that reveal lives lived in hardship. Thei
r expressions captured by UK-based artist and photographer Lee Jeffries, who str
ives to reveal the human face of addiction, the reality of homelessness and the 
real face of poverty through his work. Travelling the globe Mr Jeffries, who is 
a full-time accountant, has sought to capture the faces of those people shunned 
by society. His latest project took him to Miami in Florida. There he met Margo 
Stevens, a former porn star resigned to living on the streets of the Overtown di
strict. Photographer Lee Jeffries has made it his mission in life to give a huma
n face to poverty, addiction and homelessness. For his latest project he spent t
wo weeks in Miami, where he met former porn star Margo Stevens (pictured) Ms Ste
vens (right) was a successful adult film star in the 1990s, living a comfortable
 life from the money she made, supplement by working as an escort. Today she liv
es on the streets of the Overtown district of Miami, in an abandoned garage with
 five other girls, who sell their bodies for sex to feed their drug addictions .
 In two weeks, Jeffries delved beyond the labels that are so readily used to def
ine Ms Stevens and others. He looked past the 'prostitute', the 'homeless down a
nd out' and instead reveals Ms Stevens to be a mother-figure who reaches out to 
the younger women around her, offering advice, shelter and a friend to turn to. 
Pictured is a woman called Trish, who works on the streets using the name 'Snow'
 'Her story is stark,' Jeffries told MailOnline. 'She is a beautiful person, who
se story is both fascinating and tragic. 'She's been exploited her whole life, b
ut still she remains incredibly human. 'Margo was a well-known porn star in the 
1990s, she lived the life back then. But her fall to life now hit me hard.' Jeff
ries said he found Ms Stevens sleeping in an abandoned garage, meausring 12ft by
 6ft, with five other girls. Most are addicted to heroin, and all live off the m
oney they make as sex workers. He spent two weeks with Ms Stevens learning about
 the fate which befell her. After stripping in clubs in Cleveland for a living a
s a young woman, she fell into working in the adult film industry becoming an es
cort. For years she lived comfortably from the earnings she made. But eventually
 life dealt her a cruel hand. Far from being able to distance himself from his a
rt, Jeffries is immersed in it. He admits, the project touched him, leaving him 
angry at the way the adult film industry exploits women like Ms Stevens. Sex wor
ker Trish is pictured without the wig she wears, when she assumes her alter ego 
Snow (picture above) Through his pictures, Jeffries uncovers stories of survival
, women driven to selling their bodies as a means of feeding their addiction str
uggling through life with nowhere else to turn. Pictured is Brittany . The girls
 in Overtown survive. Labelled "crack whores" some will use their bodies to get 
the next $10 fix and are often treated worse than stray dogs by the men there. J
effries said: 'I don't judge Margo,' he said. 'She is in a spiral for whatever r
eason, it is not important. She chooses not to help herself and maybe the grip o
f her addiction is such that she can't. She understands what she is doing, the l
ife she is living. She understands the choices she makes, she just cannot see a 
way out.' A devastating spiral of homelessness, drug addiction and prostitution 
ensued. But in two weeks, Jeffries delved beyond the labels that are so readily 
used to define Ms Stevens and others. He looked past the 'prostitute', the 'home
less down and out' and instead reveals a mother-figure who reaches out to the yo
unger women around her, offering advice, shelter and a friend to turn to. Throug
h his pictures, Jeffries uncovers a story of survival, a story of a woman driven
 to sell her body as a means of feeding her addiction with nowhere else to turn.
 'I don't judge Margo,' he said. 'She is in a spiral for whatever reason, it is 
not important. 'She chooses not to help herself and maybe the grip of her addict
ion is such that she can't. She understands what she is doing, the life she is l
iving. 'She understands the choices she makes, she just cannot see a way out. 'B
ut she is a human being, she looks out for other people. She is so much more tha
n the drugs and the prostitution, the labels. She cares for the younger girls sh
e stays with, often to the detriment of herself.' Jeffries hopes his latest seri
es of portraits, of which Ms Stevens has become the focus, will help to raise aw
areness of people like Ms Stevens, those struggling to face the reality of pover
ty, addiction and living on the streets. Pictured is Latoria . Ms Stevens is not
 alone in her hardship. Though each has a distinct and unique voice, there are m
illions of people across the world like Ms Stevens, real people with nowhere to 
call home. Pictured is Latoria . Of his work, Jeffries said: 'This is a small ri
pple but it is significant in terms of what one person can do' Far from being ab
le to distance himself from his art, Jeffries is immersed in it. He admits, the 
project touched him, leaving him angry at the way the adult film industry exploi
ts women like Ms Stevens. In an interview filmed by Jeffries, Ms Stevens reveals
 her starting rate in the industry was $500 and the contracts she signed were su
ch that she made no money off the continued reproduction of her performances. 'A
 lot of people in the industry are quite slimy,' she said. 'They do a lot of exp
loiting. There are a lot of things about the adult industry that need to change.
' Addressing the financial exploitation, she adds: 'It makes me feel a fool. I'm
 responsible for that. I let that happen.' But when asked by Jeffries if she reg
rets her path in life, Ms Stevens tells the camera, 'no'. 'Not at all,' she said
. It is a brave and honest answer, one which garners Jeffries' respect and admir
ation. Mr Jeffries' new book 'Lost Angels' is available through Yellow Korner an
d more examples of his work can be seen on his Facebook page. Homeless man John 
is often spotted on Lincoln in South Beach making flowers out of palm leaves for
 tourists . An auction of images in Paris in March raised 20,000 euros for a hom
eless charity . Jeffries' work will appear in episode 256, entitled Shooter, of 
NCIS airing in the U.S. on April 29. Pictured is Smoke, he has been shot three t
imes, once in the face a few years ago . He hopes his latest series of portraits
, of which Ms Stevens has become the focus, will help to raise awareness of peop
le like Ms Stevens, those struggling to face the reality of poverty, addiction a
nd living on the streets. For she is not alone in her hardship. Though each has 
a distinct and unique voice, there are millions of people across the world like 
Ms Stevens, real people with nowhere to call home. He said: 'This is a small rip
ple but it is significant in terms of what one person can do.' Mr Jeffries' new 
book 'Lost Angels' is available through Yellow Korner and more examples of his w
ork can be seen on his Facebook page, see below. An auction of images in Paris i
n March raised 20,000 euros for a homeless charity. His work will appear in epis
ode 256, entitled Shooter, of NCIS airing in the U.S. on April 29. Another of Je
ffries subjects is Cowboy, who sleeps rough on the streets of Overtown .