Killeen, Texas (CNN) -- The U.S. Army private who authorities say admitted to pl
anning to bomb a restaurant popular with soldiers from Fort Hood is to be held w
ithout bond, a federal magistrate ordered Friday. Pfc. Naser Jason Abdo was form
ally charged with possession of an unregistered destructive device. Additional c
harges are likely, said Daryl Fields, a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office
 in San Antonio, Texas. Abdo, who refused to stand when Judge Jeffrey C. Manske 
entered the courtroom, shouted an apparent reference to the 2006 rape of an Iraq
i girl by U.S. soldiers and the 2009 shooting spree at Fort Hood by Army Maj. Ni
dal Hasan before being hustled out of the courtroom by marshals. Abdo, a Muslim 
American soldier who had been granted conscientious objector status before going
 AWOL, was being held Friday in federal custody at an undisclosed location. Acco
rding to the criminal complaint unsealed after his appearance Friday, Abdo admit
ted he planned to turn two pressure cookers found in his Killeen hotel room into
 gunpowder- and shrapnel-filled bombs to detonate inside an unnamed restaurant p
opular with soldiers from Fort Hood. Among other things, police and FBI investig
ators who searched the room found six bottles of gunpowder, shotgun shells and p
ellets and ammunition cartridges. Police who arrested him found wire, a handgun,
 ammunition and an article titled, "Make a bomb in the kitchen of your Mom" in t
he backpack he was carrying, according to the complaint. The backpack also conta
ined a notebook with a hand-written list for many of the components police recov
ered. The public defender appointed to represent Abdo, attorney Keith Dorsett of
 Waco, did not immediately respond to e-mails and telephone messages seeking com
ment. Killeen police arrested Abdo, 21, on Wednesday after a gun store employee 
tipped them that Abdo's behavior had raised red flags when he purchased six poun
ds of smokeless gunpowder and other supplies. The tip came from Greg Ebert, a re
tired police officer who works at the Guns Galore gun store. He said the young m
an appeared suspicious as soon as he pulled up in a taxi cab. "How many people g
o shopping at gun stores in a taxi cab?" Ebert asked. He described Abdo as being
 guarded and asking odd questions. Abdo browsed for about 20 minutes, Ebert said
, choosing six pounds of gunpowder, shotgun ammunition and a magazine for a semi
automatic handgun. He asked Ebert what smokeless gunpowder was before finishing 
the purchase. "Well, hello! Why are you buying this if you don't know what it's 
for?" Ebert said later. "That is a red flag for me. He should know. Why is he bu
ying that much?" Ebert said he called police after discussing the transaction at
 length with the owner of the store, which is the same place where Hasan bought 
supplies for his shooting spree. Abdo joined the infantry in 2009 and was assign
ed to Company E of the 101st Airborne Division's 1st Brigade Combat Team when he
 refused to deploy to Afghanistan on religious grounds. The Army approved his re
quest to be discharged as a conscientious objector. But on May 13, he was charge
d with possession of child pornography on his computer, according to the stateme
nt. After a June 15 hearing, at which Abdo was recommended for court-martial, he
 went AWOL. In media interviews last year, Abdo talked about seeking conscientio
us objector status, saying he felt compelled to remain true to his faith. "We ha
ve two things that I believe make us American, and that's freedom of religion an
d freedom of choice," he said. When he signed up for the military, Abdo said, he
 had not thought that his religious beliefs would be an issue. "I was under the 
impression that I could serve both the U.S. Army and my God simultaneously," he 
said. But as his deployment neared, he began to rethink things and eventually wo
rked up the courage to approach his unit and tell them how he felt, he said. "Is
lam is a much more peaceful and tolerant religion than it is an aggressive relig
ion," he said. "I don't believe that Islam allows me to operate in any kind of w
arfare at all, including the U.S. military and any war it partakes in. I believe
 that our first duty as a Muslim is to serve God." In court Friday, Abdo mention
ed "Iraq 2006," an apparent reference to an incident in which U.S. Army soldiers
 were accused of killing three members of an Iraqi family, including a 6-year-ol
d girl, and raping the family's 14-year-old girl before also killing her and set
ting the bodies on fire in an attempt to cover up the killings. Four soldiers we
re convicted and imprisoned for their roles in the shootings, rape and subsequen
t cover-up. After Abdo's arrest, Texas Gov. Rick Perry issued a statement callin
g it "a sobering reminder of the importance of remaining vigilant in the ongoing
 efforts to protect our communities from those that would do us harm." Rep. John
 Carter, R-Texas, the House Army Caucus chairman, praised the gun-shop employee 
who tipped police to Abdo, as well as the police themselves, for interrupting wh
at could have been a deadly plot. "Thanks to quick action by a Texas gun dealer 
in alerting local police to a suspicious character, and a prompt and vigorous re
sponse by the Killeen Police Department, we may well have averted a repeat of th
e tragic 2009 radical Islamic terror attack on our nation's largest military ins
tallation," he said. "We now have an example of what works to prevent these type
 attacks, and as the coming days reveal more details about this attempt, we can 
determine better ways to thwart similar efforts in the future," Carter said. In 
addition to being the site of the Fort Hood shootings, Killeen is also where, in
 1991, George Hennard crashed his pickup into a Luby's cafeteria, fatally shot 2
3 people and wounded another 20 before killing himself. "We've been through a lo
t in this community," Killeen Police Chief Dennis Baldwin said. "But I can tell 
you that's when the character of the community is more obvious." CNN's Tracy Sab
o, Barbara Starr, Marylynn Ryan and Carol Cratty contributed to this report.