Russia's economic development ministry estimates the economy will contract by 0.
8% next year.
It had previously estimated the the economy would grow by 1.2% in 2015.
Russia's reliance on tax revenues from the oil industry makes it particularly se
nsitive to price movements.
Household disposable incomes are also forecast to decline by as much as 2.8%, co
mpared with a previous estimate that they would grow by 0.4%.
The sharp revision in Russia's economic forecast is the first admission from the
 government that the economy will contract.
"The current prognosis is based on a drop in GDP by 0.8% in 2015, against the pr
evious prognosis of growth by 1.2%," deputy prime minister Alexi Vedev said.
On Monday, the rouble suffered its biggest one-day fall since 1998.
The currency slid almost 9% against the dollar before rallying after suspected c
entral bank intervention. The currency has already lost 40% in value this year.
The Russian finance ministry has also not ruled out spending more than 500 billi
on roubles from the budget's Reserve Fund next year.
The 2015-2017 budget allows for spending of up to 500bn roubles (£5.9bn) next
 year from the Reserve Fund, but Maxim Oreshkin, head of the finance ministry's 
long-term strategic planning department, said it was possible the government cou
ld spend more to support the economy.
He added that if the average oil price were $80 per barrel in 2015, the finance 
ministry's forecast for a fall in GDP was in line with the economy ministry's pr
ediction of a 0.8% contraction.
He also said that a scenario in which the oil price averaged $60 a barrel in 201
5 was pessimistic, and at that price, the Russian economy would contract as fore
cast in the central bank's "stress scenario".
The bank published its stress scenario last month, saying that at $60 per barrel
, GDP would decline by 3.5% to 4%.
"The real damage from the collapsing rouble and oil price is to investment and g
rowth,'' said Chris Weafer, senior partner at Moscow-based Macro-Advisory, in a 
note to investors.
"Russia is a non-investible country for all but the bravest of hedge fund invest
ors right now, and will remain in this category until both the rouble and oil st
abilise at minimum."
The price of oil has fallen nearly 40% since the summer because of oversupply ca
used by rising US shale oil production.
Demand has also fallen, particularly in China, the world's second largest consum
er of the commodity, where industrial production has slowed in recent months.
Last week, Opec ministers met to discuss a possible cut in oil production in ord
er to stabilise the oil price, but the meeting broke up without agreement.
Opec secretary general Abdallah Salem el-Badri said: "There's a price decline. T
hat does not mean that we should really rush and do something."
The fall in the oil price has been causing concern for several members of the oi
l cartel, as most require a price above $80 a barrel to balance their government
 budgets and many need prices to be above $100 a barrel.