(CNN) -- NASA says its latest Mars-exploring spacecraft is on track to fire up i
ts thrusters and enter orbit this Sunday night, completing a 10-month journey of
 442 million miles. NASA's MAVEN craft will live up to its formal name -- the Ma
rs Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution craft -- by helping scientists figure out h
ow ancient Mars changed so dramatically into the planet we know today. It will b
e the first mission devoted to studying the upper Martian atmosphere as a key to
 understanding the history of Mars' climate, water and habitability. Mars rover 
reaches key destination; 'new science ahead!' "The evidence shows that the Mars 
atmosphere today is a cold, dry environment, one where liquid water really can't
 exist in a stable state," said Bruce Jakosky, MAVEN principal investigator, dur
ing a mission preview briefing Wednesday at NASA headquarters in Washington. "Bu
t it also tells us when we look at older surfaces, that the ancient surfaces had
 liquid water flowing over it." So where did the planet's water and carbon dioxi
de go? Jakosky said MAVEN will help unravel that mystery by using its scientific
 instruments to measure the composition and escape of gases in the Martian atmos
phere. MAVEN will study the top of the atmosphere to determine the extent to whi
ch losing gas to space might have been the driving mechanism behind climate chan
ge, Jakosky said. Before MAVEN can begin its year of exploration, it has to be i
nserted into orbit around Mars. That is set to happen at about 10 p.m. ET Septem
ber 21. The craft's six thruster engines will fire and burn for 33 minutes to sl
ow the spacecraft down so it can get pulled into orbit around Mars. MAVEN will h
ave company out near Mars, manmade and otherwise. India's first mission to the R
ed Planet, the Mars Orbiter Mission, is set to arrive a few days after MAVEN doe
s. The director of NASA's Planetary Science Division, Jim Green, says the United
 States and India are interested in cooperating as their crafts gather data abou
t the planet. There's a visitor of the cosmic kind, too. Comet Sliding Spring, w
hich was discovered last year, will be closest to Mars about four weeks after MA
VEN arrives. The comet is going to miss Mars by about 81,000 miles, said Jakosky
. "I'm told that the odds of having an approach that close to Mars are about one
-in-a-million years," he said, adding that dust from the comet carries only a "r
elatively minimal" risk to the spacecraft. MAVEN will take advantage of the rare
 flyby by observing the comet itself, as well as its effect on the Martian atmos
phere. Interactive: Exploring Mars from Viking to MAVEN .