The independent inspector of immigration said the Home Office must make signific
ant improvements regarding "overstayers" - foreign nationals refused leave to st
ay in the country.
John Vine said failure to do so could "undermine public confidence".
Immigration Minister James Brokenshire said there was room for improvement.
The report suggests that the amount of "overstayers" in the UK is not increasing
, and instead is remaining largely static.
Mr Vine said the overall size of the "migration refusal pool" - the number of fo
reign nationals refused leave to stay in the UK after 2008 - was 173,562 in the 
three months to June this year, compared with 174,057 in the same period two yea
rs earlier.
The Home Office signed a contract with private outsourcing group Capita to revie
w, and where possible, close the records of migrants who had been refused leave 
to stay in the UK.
But Mr Vine said there had been "significant inaccuracies" in Capita's classific
ation of migration refusal records.
The inspection concluded that of a sample of 57 records 16 had wrongly recorded 
the foreign national as having left the UK.
A Capita spokeswoman rejected claims that it had used information about passenge
rs to the UK incorrectly and that it had incorrectly classified passport records
.
She also rejected "any inference that we benefited in any way" from following th
e processes used to record migrants' entry to and exit of the UK.
In his report, Mr Vine specified that what he describes as Capita's inaccuracies
 meant the number of "overstayers" thought to have departed may have been overes
timated by as many as 1,140 in 2013-14.
Mr Vine said: "I was disappointed to find a high level of inaccuracy in the clas
sification of migration refusal records, with more than a quarter of departures 
in my sample being incorrectly recorded.
"Considerable improvements in the Home Office's capability to monitor, progress,
 and prioritise the immigration enforcement caseload will be needed to deliver i
ts strategy for reducing the level of irregular migration."
He said inspectors had also identified a further 223,000 records of foreign nati
onals without permission to stay in the UK, whose cases dated to before 2008.
James Brokenshire said the report's recommendations would be taken forward, but 
changes made by the government had been having a positive impact and needed to b
e judged over time.
"The public can have confidence on the rigour that we are attaching to this issu
e," he said.