An Australian father who is believed to have been brainwashed by the preachings 
of Islamic extremist Musa Cerantonio has joined the ranks of terror group Islami
c State to fight in the Middle East. According to Twitter, Zia Abdul Haq's curre
nt location is in an IS-controlled area of Ash-Shaam, also known as Syria. Frien
ds of the 33-year-old believed the man from Logan - south of Brisbane - was movi
ng to Syria to look for a new wife after the breakdown of his marriage, but The 
Courier Mail has revealed Abdul Haq is in fact fighting with the extremist organ
isation. Scroll down for video . The friends of Zia Abdul Haq says the father-of
-one, from Logan, is a 'good-hearted guy' Two of Australia's most notorious jiha
dists Khaled Sharrouf and Mohamed Elomar are part of the same group. Abdul Haq i
s one of the latest of three men who are believed to have joined IS, including M
elbourne's Abu Khaled al-Cambodi and Mounir Raad. The 33-year-old's friends desc
ribed him as a 'good-hearted guy' but had been 'brainwashed' by Cerantonio - who
 is believed to be an influential IS figure - after hearing the radical sheik sp
eak in Brisbane two years ago. The 33-year-old's friends claim he was brainwashe
d by prominent IS supporter, Musa Cerantonio - a radical sheik . 'He wasn’t a 
bad guy but he fell off the rails and under the spell of the extremists,' friend
 Yehya El-Kholed told The Courier Mail. 'Sheik Cerantonio is a hypocrite because
 while he urges people to go to Syria, he won’t go himself.' Since he landed i
n Syria, Abdul Haq - who came to Australia in his 20s and took up a job as a fin
ance officer - has been actively posting photos depicting life as a fighter for 
IS on the social media site. These include M16 training, jihadists playing viole
nt video games and cooking up a shared meal. But like Sharrouf and Elomar, Abdul
 Haq - who has a young son - has used Twitter as platform to fire off threatenin
g messages, including one to foreign forces to 'bring dead body bag for each of 
your soldiers'. Most recently, he took aim at the U.S. saying 'Send you (men) to
 fight us, your drones are useless on the ground'  and 'How come you fight #IS w
ith your gays & lesbians army' on Saturday night. Abdul Haq has also hit back at
 media outlets circulating news about him. 'Many lies about me in Australian new
s. =/,' he tweeted within half an hour of reports emerging. Since arriving in Sy
ria Abdul Haq has been posting photos on Twitter of what it is like being an IS 
fighter . Last month Musa Cerantonio was deported back to Australia from the Phi
lippines after he was arrested after breaching the Philippines' immigration laws
. Changing his name from Robert Edward, the 29-year-old was detained in the cent
ral Filipino city of Cebu where he was believed to have been hiding from Austral
ian authorities, despite claiming on Twitter he had arrived in the Middle East j
ust days before his arrest. He was found with a Filipino fashion designer claimi
ng to be his wife, inside an apartment. Australian authorities cancelled his pas
sport, triggering his arrest and leaving without any documentation. He was then 
set free when he arrived in Melbourne after deportation as he had not broken any
 Australian laws. Musa Cerantonio is thought to be an influential IS figure and 
Abdul Haq is believed to have taken up extremist views after hearing the sheik s
peak in 2012 in Brisbane .