By . Hugo Gye . PUBLISHED: . 12:59 EST, 27 November 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 14:06 
EST, 27 November 2013 . A retired watchmaker who set up a cannabis factory in hi
s garage shot a burglar who was trying to break in to his remote farmhouse, a co
urt heard today. Malcolm White, 63, fired at Robert Richards when he caught him 
trying to smash his living room window in October 2011. The burglar, who fired b
ack at the homeowner before fleeing in a getaway van, was so badly injured when 
he was arrested that doctors had to amputate his right leg. On trial: Malcolm Wh
ite, pictured with his partner Josephine Merrick, is accused of shooting a burgl
ar at his home . Break-in: Robert Richards and Darren Randall attempted to burgl
e the farmhouse in Herefordshire, pictured . But White insists that the shooting
 was an accident, and has pleaded not guilty to unlawful wounding with intent to
 commit grievous bodily harm at Worcester Crown Court. A jury heard that the ret
iree spent 20 minutes locking up the garage which contained his £18,000 cannabi
s farm before he reported the attempted break-in at his £420,000 home in Whitbo
rne, Herefordshire by Richards, 30, and Darren Randall, 26. He told officers he 
believed the robbers had been after his Audi A8 sports car - but failed to infor
m them he had shot one of the thieves. The jury was told that White had a total 
of 20 firearms stashed around his home, and boasted to partner Josephine Merrick
 that he 'shot the bastard' during the botched burglary. Investigation: Police f
ound £18,000 worth of cannabis plants at the house when they searched it . Pros
ecutor Simon Phillips said that White was 'no ordinary householder' and shot Ric
hards in order to 'protect his turf'. He continued: 'The reality was, Mr White k
new this raid was a possibility and took the initiative to shoot Mr Richards bef
ore he knew it. 'He was protecting his turf and was prepared with a number of fi
rearms around his property. 'In Mr White's garage was a valuable and extensive c
rop of cannabis. He was somebody who had something to protect.' The barrister to
ld the court that the couple's home was 'set apart from other houses', making it
 easier for White to conceal his drug farm, for which he had bought £20,000 wor
th of equipment. When police searched the garage they seized 60 plants worth up 
to £18,000 but capable of producing £60,000 of cannabis a year. Haul: A police
 officer is pictured taking cannabis plants away from White's garage . Case: Ms 
Merrick was sentenced to unpaid work over the cannabis factory at her home . Mr 
Phillips said: 'Mr White and Josephine Merrick were watching television when som
eone began banging on the living room window with a tool of some sort but were u
nable to gain access. 'Mr White turned to Josephine Merrick and said, "I'll get 
the bastard" before she escaped into the hallway. She then heard three shots - b
oom, crack, crack. 'She then heard a man's voice shouting "He's got me" and "We'
ve got to get him out of here," before a sound consistent of people moving away 
from the house. 'Next, she went to the living room and saw through the smashed w
indow essentially Mr Richards and Mr Randall doing a runner. 'Mr Richards was fo
und with Mr Randall by passersby and then police outside a Chinese takeaway in n
earby Leigh Sinton. Partner: Ms Merrick, who was present on the night of the inc
ident, is pictured outside court . 'Josephine Merrick wondered where Mr White wa
s, she noticed the upstairs lights were on, they were previously off. Mr White t
hen came in from the kitchen when she said, "Did you get him?" 'To which he repl
ied, "Yes I got the bastard." She said, "Is he still alive?" And Mr White said, 
"Yes, he's still walking, I think I got him in the leg, I wish I would have fini
shed him off."' During a police interview, White said he thought he had shot the
 gun in the air, adding that he believed the men were trying to get to his car o
r his partner. He said he had been growing drugs for four or five months. Ms Mer
rick was ordered to perform 15 hours of unpaid work and given a 12-month restrai
ning order after she pleaded guilty to producing a controlled substance last mon
th. Richards was jailed for 10 and a half years and Randall sentenced to 13 year
s and four months after they were convicted of aggravated burglary in February. 
The trial continues. Sorry we are unable to accept comments for legal reasons.