China’s first budget airline is poised to lobby industry regulators for permis
sion to install standing-only ‘seats’ on its planes so it can cram more peop
le on board. Shanghai-based Spring Airlines said it would offer cheaper fares to
 those who are willing to stand at a vertical seat, according to China National 
Radio. It’s not the first time the idea has been floated – Dublin-based Ryan
air famously proposed selling standing-only tickets in 2009 to increase passenge
r traffic and cut costs. China's Spring Airlines wants to install 'vertical seat
s' on its planes so it can cram more passengers on board . Spring Airlines chair
man Wang Zhenghua confirmed to China National Radio that he wants standing-only 
cabins on his planes and is seeking government approval. The 70-year-old billion
aire told the broadcaster that he began exploring the idea in 2008 after a chaot
ic Chinese New Year travel rush. Customers told China National Radio that they w
ould be hesitant to buy a ticket for a vertical seat out of safety concerns. One
 told the broadcaster that she fears passengers would be injured when the plane 
flies through bad weather or is rocked by turbulence. Spring Airlines said it wo
uld offer cheaper fares to those who are willing to stand at a vertical seat . S
pring Airlines plans to work with manufacturers on a design that would include a
 safety belt. The low-cost carrier, founded in 2004, offers flights as cheap as 
£1 ($1.50) and flies to destinations in China, Japan, Thailand and other Asian 
countries. Even though designs have been proposed and no-frills airlines have ex
pressed interest, the vertical seat concept has not taken off because it hasn’
t received approval from authorities. Ryanair abandoned its proposal in 2012 aft
er it was thwarted by an unnamed regulator. The Irish carrier planned to install
 ten rows of vertical seats on its planes – increasing capacity by about 40 pa
ssengers – and charge less than £5 to travellers who were willing to stand. A
irbus filed a patent for a new seat that is similar to a bicycle saddle that fli
ps up when it is not in use . Italian firm Aviointeriors designed the ‘Skyride
r’ seat, which was inspired by saddles used by cowboys . Last year, Airbus fil
ed a patent for a new seat that is similar to a bicycle saddle that flips up whe
n it is not in use. The design, intended for short-haul flights, would increase 
capacity for airlines and leave passengers with even less space. In 2010, Italia
n firm Aviointeriors unveiled its design for the ‘Skyrider’ seat, which was 
inspired by saddles used by cowboys. In that seat passengers would sit at an ang
le with just 23in of legroom between them and the seat in front of them – abou
t seven inches less than the average seat pitch on most planes.