By . Anna Hodgekiss . A spelling error by hospital staff meant they missed a cru
cial chance to help a troubled mother who later killed herself. NHS workers made
 a tiny keyboard mistake that left them unaware of Marie Natalie Piner’s long 
history of depression. The records that would have shown her mental health issue
s were missed, and the young mother was discharged. Marie Natalie Piner was foun
d dead after she was discharged from hospital. A spelling blunder by NHS staff m
eant they were unaware of her long history of depression . The 36-year-old was l
ater found dead in a car in her home town of Clacton, Essex after taking an over
dose of prescription pills. The . computer system used at the hospital at the ce
ntre of the incident has . now been revamped following the death, an inquest hea
rd. The hearing was . told that staff at Colchester General Hospital saw Mrs Pin
er on . November 27 last year. They inputted her maiden name L’Aimable on a . 
computer – but left off the vital apostrophe. The mistake meant her long histo
ry of treatment for depression did not appear on screen. She was still referred 
to mental health staff, who carried out an assessment but then discharged her. J
ust . weeks later on December 8 last year, Mrs Piner was reported missing . afte
r she phoned her daughter and a friend, warning them that she had . large amount
s of pills and intended to take them all. The . disappearance sparked a major se
arch involving a police helicopter and . lifeboats. Mrs Piner was found dead fou
r days later in a Mercedes C180 . in a Clacton car park. A . toxicology report s
howed she had a fatal amount of the prescription . opiate Tramadol in her system
. A spokesman for North Essex Partnership, . which carried out the mental health
 assessment, said a revamped computer . system is set to go live from October. C
hanges mean that slight mistakes on spellings will still yield search results. T
he . spokesman said: ‘Mrs Piner was referred for assessment in November 2012 .
 following treatment in a general hospital setting, but under her maiden . name 
L’Aimable and unfortunately without the apostrophe. ‘During her assessment s
he did not disclose her previous psychiatric history. ‘Regrettably . the conse
quence was that at the end of her mental health assessment, . with the informati
on available, and with Mrs Piner’s agreement, no . further support was require
d from the Trust at that time.’ Essex assistant coroner Eleanor McGann ruled t
he death was a suicide as a result of an overdose. She said: ‘Mrs Piner had a 
very high level of Tramadol in her system - much higher than would be required t
o kill somebody.’