Jerusalem woke up on Tuesday to horrific images of slain Jewish worshipers, and 
scores injured in a terror attack on a synagogue. The assault which took place i
n the western Jerusalem neighborhood of Har Nof, shocked Israel to the core, as 
well as many others around the world. This is not surprising considering both th
e brutality of the attack and the fact it was carried out in a holy place, where
 innocent religious people were worshiping. The two assailants, cousins from the
 East Jerusalem neighborhood of Jabal Mukaber, were shot dead by the Israeli sec
urity forces. The incident in addition to the ongoing violence since the beginni
ng of summer, left the city of Jerusalem more divided than for a long time. The 
attack this week should have also sent a clear message to both leaderships that 
if they will not take measures to calm the situation down, further escalation an
d worse violence is around the corner. Regrettably, the Hamas praised the attack
 in Jerusalem and the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described the si
tuation as the "Battle for Jerusalem." He also accused the Palestinian president
 Mahmoud Abbas of involvement despite the latter's condemnation of the killing. 
Both sides are employing inflammable language, although it is hard to blame the 
Palestinian president for feeling angry considering Israeli behavior since the c
ollapse of the peace process in April. To make things worse, it emerged in recen
t days that Israel has also decided to return to a policy of demolishing houses 
of terrorists' families, even if they were killed during the attack. The Israeli
 security establishment argues that this form of punishment serves as a deterren
ce for any other would-be assailants. Regardless of the fate they face, their fa
milies are going to pay a heavy price and will be left homeless. In a society wh
ere three generations of one family might live under the same roof, one act harm
s quite a few people, from babies to the elderly.  To prove the seriousness of t
heir intentions, the Israeli security forces already demolished a home on Wednes
day. The home in Silwan was that of the Palestinian who drove his car into a cro
wd last month, killing two people. He was killed in the attack. The Army also mo
ved to demolish the houses of the two who carried out the killing at the synagog
ue in Jerusalem. Ironically the policy of demolishing houses as a form of deterr
ence was abandoned back in 2005 at the request of the Israeli army.  A report pr
oduced, following an investigation by the Israeli security establishment, found 
this action counter-productive. There is actually evidence that house demolition
 led to a rise in the number of attacks. House demolition of Palestinian militan
ts' houses is a form of collective punishment and an act of revenge, concealed b
ehind a claim of deterrence. A similar "standard" was never applied to a Jewish 
terrorist. For instance when a  Jewish settler, Baruch Goldstein, slayed 29 Musl
im worshipers in the Cave of Patriarchs, no one suggested to demolish his home a
s a deterrence. According to the Israeli human rights organization B'tselem, in 
the height of the Second Intifada, between 2001-2005, 664 Palestinian homes were
 demolished in the occupied Palestinian territories as an apparent deterrence. T
here is no evidence that the misery inflicted on thousands of innocent Palestini
ans enhanced Israeli security. It is worth remembering that the demolition of Pa
lestinian houses in the West Bank also takes place for the purpose of expanding 
settlements, something which aggravates an already hostile population. Arbitrary
 house demolitions represent not only a bad policy, but are also illegal and imm
oral. This is a clear violation of international law, more specifically the Four
th Geneva Convention, clearly prohibits forcing individuals and groups out of th
eir homes within an occupied territory. Any demolition of houses when there are 
no overwhelming military reasons is regarded as a grave breach of the Geneva Con
vention and could potentially lead to a war crime charge. And there is also, of 
course, a moral aspect. As deplorable as some of the acts committed by a few ind
ividuals, their punishment should not extend beyond their death or what the cour
t decides. Their families, as a result, suffered a loss too, for no fault of the
ir own. To condemn them to destitution for an act that they did not commit is a 
moral travesty. The decision by the Israelis to resume Palestinian house demolit
ion following an attack on Jews in Israel is not a security decision but a polit
ical one, aimed to satisfy an angry public and extreme right-wing members of the
 current coalition. The Israeli coalition depends on satisfying their demands. H
owever, the lack of credibility of the deterrence argument, combined with the im
morality and illegality of house demolitions should serve as an overwhelming rea
son not to resume this abysmal practice.