(CNN) -- Congress has moved to prevent money from the proposed $825 billion stim
ulus package from being used for zoos, aquariums, golf courses, swimming pools a
nd casinos, an effort to ensure the bill funds only what it calls the "highest q
uality" infrastructure projects. Restrictions added to the stimulus proposal wou
ld keep the money from zoo projects, among other things. "The purpose of this bi
ll is to direct funding at projects that are primarily and clearly aimed at bene
fiting the economic conditions of communities and the public at large," the bill
 states. "The federal government and all other levels of government are directed
 to look with a skeptical eye at projects that don't meet that test." CNN reveal
ed last month that a list of "ready to go" stimulus projects endorsed by the U.S
. Conference of Mayors included museum and zoo renovations, aquatic centers, ska
teboard parks and bike and horse paths. One of the zoo projects in the report is
 a $4.8 million polar bear exhibit at the Providence, Rhode Island, zoo. The Hou
se Appropriations Committee added those restrictions last week after criticism f
rom watchdog groups like the National Taxpayers Union, which monitors government
 spending. "To the people supporting them, these proposals aren't a joke," said 
Pete Sepp, the group's vice president. "But to the taxpayers funding them, yes t
his will be a joke for them, only they won't be laughing." The restrictions in t
he bill appear meant to address reports about some of the projects endorsed by t
he U.S. mayors, Sepp said. The stimulus bill, known as the American Recovery and
 Reinvestment Act, has been placed on the congressional fast-track. It could com
e to a vote in the full House of Representatives as soon as Wednesday, and Democ
ratic leaders have said they aim to get the package to President Obama's desk fo
r enactment by Presidents Day.  Watch Obama say he's optimistic after discussing
 the bill with GOP leaders » . "A historical level of transparency, oversight a
nd accountability will help guarantee taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and Amer
icans can see results for their investment," Rep. Dave Obey, the Wisconsin Democ
rat who leads the Appropriations Committee, said in a statement. The committee a
lso added language that would prevent any money given to the state of Illinois f
rom being handled by the state's impeached governor, Rod Blagojevich. Blagojevic
h faces federal charges accusing him of attempting to trade or sell the U.S. Sen
ate seat vacated by Obama after his November election, and the state Senate bega
n his trial Monday. The governor denies any wrongdoing and has skipped his impea
chment trial to proclaim his innocence on the talk-show circuit. The measure set
s up project monitoring, including a government-wide recovery program Web site, 
where all announcements for grant competitions, formula grant allocations and co
mpetitive grant awards must be listed. In addition, government agencies must pub
lish on the site, "a description of all infrastructure projects, and the total c
ost and the justification for using stimulus money." The strict rules require th
at the notification include "the name of a person to contact at the entity if th
ere are concerns with the investment and an e-mail address for the federal offic
ial in each agency whom the public can contact," the bill states. "Also included
 within the notification must be a certification from the mayor or governor or o
ther chief executive, as appropriate, that the investment has received the full 
review and vetting required by law and that they accept responsibility that this
 investment is an appropriate use of taxpayer dollars." A Recovery Act Accountab
ility and Transparency Board will be created "to review management of recovery d
ollars and provide early earning of problems," according to a summary of the bil
l provided by the appropriations committee. The board will include inspectors ge
neral and deputy cabinet secretaries. The stimulus package is already being take
n up by key committees in the Senate, where Majority Leader Harry Reid -- from c
asino-heavy Nevada -- said he is not concerned about the House restrictions on m
oney going to casinos. "Casinos are a huge part of Nevada's economy and create a
 lot of jobs," Reid told CNN on Tuesday. "But none of the spending in this bill 
is earmarked for any casino, so this provision is largely symbolic."