Washington (CNN) -- Within hours of President Barack Obama's announcement that O
sama bin Laden had been killed, politics entered the fray. A small but vocal gro
up of Republicans including former Bush administration officials began claiming 
that information obtained from waterboarding and other now-prohibited enhanced i
nterrogation techniques led to the successful assault on bin Laden's compound in
 Pakistan. Debate rages about role of torture . Interviews and commentaries by c
onservatives, including former Vice President Dick Cheney repeated the contentio
n, citing media reports rather than direct information. A closer look shows no o
bvious evidence of a direct connection, at least to waterboarding, the simulated
 drowning technique considered to be torture under international law. While admi
nistration officials, former interrogators and others concede that thousands of 
pieces of information collected over the past nine years eventually brought U.S.
 Navy SEALs to bin Laden, no one has cited specific information that came from t
he harsh interrogations labeled torture. That doesn't stop defenders of enhanced
 interrogations from trying. Republican Rep. Peter King, the chairman of the Hou
se Homeland Security Committee, said that waterboarding alleged 9/11 mastermind 
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed caused him to eventually provide information on the al Qa
eda courier killed with bin Laden in the raid. Was bin Laden's killing legal? Mo
hammed was captured in 2003, and another high-value suspect, Abu Faraj al Libi, 
was captured in 2005. "I think it's fair to say that it's a long way to getting 
bin Laden, but the first step along that road began with the intense interrogati
on" of Mohammed and al Libi, King said. However, as CNN Senior Political Analyst
 Gloria Borger reported Wednesday, Central Intelligence Agency operatives alread
y knew the courier's nickname when they interrogated Mohammed and al Libi. Accor
ding to Borger's report, the detainee who initially provided the courier's nickn
ame may have been subjected to harsh interrogation, but not waterboarding. Later
, Mohammed lied to his interrogators about the courier, who was described as his
 protege, and intelligence personnel concluded that the courier was important be
cause Mohammed was trying to cover for him, a senior U.S. official said. U.S. in
telligence eventually uncovered the courier's identity four years ago "from a di
fferent part of the world," the senior U.S. official said. Trail to bin Laden st
arted with courier . King argued that Mohammed only talked after being waterboar
ded, and even though he lied about the courier, the fact he talked at all showed
 the value of waterboarding. To Deputy National Security Adviser Denis McDonough
, no such connection exists. "This whole idea about somehow whether EITs (enhanc
ed interrogation techniques) played into that, I think, is just not consistent w
ith the facts, and, also, a little bit of a sideshow, as far as I'm concerned," 
McDonough said. White House Press Secretary Jay Carney told reporters Wednesday 
that locating bin Laden required years of painstaking work that eventually led t
o discovery of the address of the Pakistan compound last August. "I can say with
 certainty that no single piece of information, with the exception of the addres
s of the compound, was ... singularly vital to this, because we're talking about
 tiny bits of information that were compiled by unbelievably competent professio
nals over nine and a half years," Carney said. "And it's impossible to know if o
ne piece of information came from one source and was corroborated in another way
; if, you know which thread held the cloth together, with the exception of the l
ocation of the compound." Carney acknowledged that some information came from te
rrorism detainees, which he called one of many ways that information was gathere
d. "Now, I can't categorically rule out that one piece of information" played a 
key role, "because we don't know," Carney said. Mark Fallon, a former interrogat
or at the Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, terrorist detention facility, rejected claims th
at enhanced interrogation techniques led to bin Laden's capture. "I think some p
eople are trying to rewrite history here," Fallon told MSNBC, adding that he was
 privy to information from Mohammed and wasn't aware "of any substantive informa
tion or intelligence that was a derivative product of waterboarding." One of Oba
ma's first acts as president was to halt waterboarding and other enhanced interr
ogation techniques of the Bush administration. The issue was one of the most con
tentious of the Bush presidency, with critics accusing the administration of leg
alizing torture while supporters called the enhanced interrogations necessary fo
r combating terrorism. Now, those who were under fire for the interrogation poli
cies are claiming vindication and calling for their return. John Yoo, a Bush adm
inistration lawyer who wrote the memo justifying the enhanced techniques, said i
n a posting Monday on the National Review website that the policy had worked. Ho
wever, his posting only cited media reports based on anonymous sources, rather t
han any specific information gleaned from interrogated detainees. Marc Thiessen,
 a visiting fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, made similar assertions
 on the group's website, but began his commentary by attributing his information
 to news reports. Cheney, interviewed on ABC and Fox, said he assumed enhanced i
nterrogation techniques played a role in bin Laden's demise, but added he had no
 proof. Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said that information was key
 to the fight against terrorism. "Now let's remember that in the early days, we 
knew very little about how al Qaeda operated and the roundup of their field gene
rals like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed led us not just to learn that there was a couri
er -- I remember when they learned there was a courier who might be a link to Os
ama bin Laden -- but we also learned from those people about the structure of al
 Qaeda," Rice said. However, Democratic Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who chairs the Se
nate Intelligence Committee, said she was unaware of any information eventually 
leading to bin Laden's location that "came as a result of harsh interrogation pr
actices." Two conservative senators -- Republicans John McCain of Arizona and Li
ndsey Graham of South Carolina -- also rejected the claim that waterboarding and
 other enhanced interrogation played a role in finding bin Laden. "This idea -- 
we caught Bin Laden because of waterboarding -- I think is a misstatement," Grah
am said, citing instead the years of difficult intelligence work. "I do not beli
eve this is a time to celebrate waterboarding. I believe this is a time to celeb
rate hard work." CNN's Gloria Borger contributed to this story.