But the chancellor said there must be "business as usual, life as normal" for Br
itons as the UK left the EU.
"Many things would look similar" the day after Brexit - on 29 March 2019 - as th
e UK moved gradually towards a new relationship with the EU, he said.
The EU has said it is too soon to discuss a transitional deal.
A European Commission spokesman said: "We are about to discuss the specifics of 
separation and once this is done to the satisfaction of everyone, we may move to
 the second step."
The UK is due to leave the EU at the end of March 2019 but there has been increa
sing talk of a "transitional" or "implementation" stage to smooth the process, b
efore a new long-term relationship with the EU comes into force.
This could mean a period during which some EU rules would continue to apply to t
he UK after it has technically left the bloc. Newspaper reports have suggested t
hese could include the free movement of people, something that was seen as a key
 issue in the vote to leave the EU.
Mr Hammond also appeared to acknowledge that it could mean new trade deals with 
non-EU countries could not be signed during that period.
The chancellor told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the length of any transitional
 deal would "be driven by technical considerations".
Beneath the surface, Chancellor Philip Hammond had been arguing for a transition
al arrangement to avoid choppy waters in 2019. There is no longer any dissent in
 the ranks - that concept has been agreed by the Cabinet.
In return, the chancellor has acceded to demands by ministers who voted to leave
 the EU that any transitional phase must be completed by the scheduled date of t
he next general election - June 2022.
But have other disagreements so far escaped the political sonar?
Read more from Iain
On Thursday, immigration minister Brandon Lewis said it was a "simple matter of 
fact" that EU free movement rules would not apply after 2019.
Mr Hammond said this was correct because freedom of movement was an EU concept a
nd the UK would leave the customs union and single market on 29 March 2019.
But he said the question that needed answering was what happened next, so that B
ritish people and businesses could "get on with their lives" without "massive di
sruption".
He said he hoped that, in the immediate aftermath, goods would "continue to flow
 across the border between the UK and the EU in much the same way as they do now
".
On whether EU citizens would continue to be free to enter the UK, he said it wou
ld be "some time before we are able to introduce full migration controls between
 the UK and the European Union".
"That's not a matter of political choice, it's a matter of fact. We have to put 
in place quite a lot of new infrastructure, we will need a lot of new people, we
 will need new IT systems... This is going to take a while to deliver."
He said Britons wanted to know they would still be able to "go about their busin
ess" after March 2019, from buying European goods to going off on holiday, addin
g: "The government's job is to make sure that our economy can go on functioning 
normally, that people can go about their businesses as usual... that is our focu
s."
Some of Mr Hammond's colleagues who campaigned for a Leave vote have accepted th
at an "implementation period" after Brexit is likely.
The Conservative MP and Leave campaigner Nigel Evans said any transition period 
should end as soon as the UK had arrangements in place, saying: "This is not goi
ng to be seen as a ruse whereby some people who might have liked us to remain in
 the European Union can see this as an opportunity to keep us half in.
"That's not going to happen. We are, in all but one or two transitional arrangem
ents, going to have left the European Union by March 2019."
Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer said Labour had been calling for "appro
priate transitional arrangements" which the chancellor "now appears to accept".
"However, in light of the clear divisions this week within the Cabinet, I hope t
he chancellor was not merely speaking in a personal capacity," he said.
"I also hope that this is the final burial of the flawed proposition that 'no de
al' is a viable option."
Lib Dem leader Sir Vince Cable said a transition period was only "kicking the ca
n down the road".
"All the problems associated with a hard Brexit, leaving the single market, leav
ing the customs union, they will simply be confronted two years later."
Meanwhile, Malta's PM Joseph Muscat has said he is "starting to believe that Bre
xit will not happen", according to the Guardian.