It may be a foregone conclusion in the minds of many that accused Boston bomber 
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev is guilty of murder.  A horrific crime: multiple killings, inc
luding that of a child, and more than 200 maimed or wounded. What may be less cl
ear is Tsarnaev's role in the attack, and whether, if convicted, he will be sent
enced to death. As both sides prepare for his November trial, court filings and 
arguments by prosecutors and the defense provide a glimpse into their opposing s
trategy for the penalty phase of the case. The government says it has video show
ing Tsarnaev placing a backpack near the finish line, then using his cell phone,
 moments before the first bomb went off. He walked away and the second bomb went
 off in front of the camera, officials say. There is also the note Tsarnaev scri
bbled on the boat he was hiding in, claiming the Boston Marathon victims were pa
yback for U.S. wars in Muslim lands. Excerpts of the note open the grand jury in
dictment.  "I can't stand to see such evil go unpunished;" Tsarnaev wrote.  "We 
Muslims are one body, you hurt one, you hurt us all;" "Now I don't like killing 
innocent people it is forbidden in Islam but due to said (unintelligible) it is 
allowed;" and "Stop killing our innocent people and we will stop." In seeking th
e death penalty, prosecutors cite as an aggravating factor Tsarnaev's "betrayal 
of the United States."  They claim that after Tsarnaev received asylum from the 
United States, the defendant "enjoyed the freedoms of a United States citizen; a
nd then betrayed his allegiance to the United States" by killing and maiming its
 people. Leading the defense team is Judy Clarke, a longtime public defender who
 has represented some of the nation's most notorious criminals, including "Unabo
mber" Ted Kaczynski, who killed three; Jared Loughner, who shot and killed six p
eople and critically wounded Rep. Gabby Giffords; and Susan Smith, the emotional
ly disturbed mother who drowned her two children. Kaczynski and Loughner pleaded
 guilty and were sentenced to life imprisonment. In the Smith case, Clarke argue
d that her client's abusive childhood and depression tormented her, causing her 
to "snap."  Although it convicted Smith of murdering her sons, the jury spared h
er life. "She enjoys a wonderful reputation, she fights very hard for all her cl
ients," said former U.S. attorney David Kelley, who prosecuted terrorism cases i
n New York's Southern District.  "She's the model for all defense lawyers." Huma
nizing Tsarnaev is a priority for his defense team, said David Hoose, a criminal
 defense lawyer who represented Kristen Gilbert, a former Veterans Administratio
n nurse convicted of killing four patients.  The jury in that case did not vote 
unanimously to impose the death sentence.  Gilbert was thus sentenced to life in
 prison. "There's always a story to be told, " Hoose said.  "It's not a story th
at excuses or justifies what was done. but it explains and allows us to understa
nd as human being to human being what led someone to the point in their life whe
re they could undertake such an act that virtually everyone else finds incompreh
ensibly horrible." The defense has great leeway in presenting its case for the p
enalty phase.  "The Supreme Court has held that pretty much anything related to 
the defense background, or character, or to the circumstances surrounding the cr
ime" is admissible, Hoose said. Hoose said he believes Tsarnaev, who was 19 when
 the crime happened, has a good chance of avoiding the death penalty. "This is a
 young kid, still impressionable, only a year and a half over the minimum that h
e would have to be even to be eligible for the death penalty, who is clearly und
er the influence of an older brother who has been radicalized and who has become
 extremely violent.  What do you do as a younger sibling when that kind of thing
 is going on in your family?" In a recent court filing, the defense lawyers soug
ht information prosecutors obtained from the federal government's surveillance o
f Tamerlan Tsarnaev.  "Any evidence tending to show that Tamerlan supplied the m
otivation, planning and ideology behind the Boston Marathon attack, and that his
 younger brother acted under his domination and control, is material," the defen
se argued. Tsarnaev's defense team declined to comment to CNN, but in a status h
earing this week, they called the Tsarnaev family dynamic key to their case.  "I
f the government indictment is true, this is about a family," defense attorney D
avid Bruck said.  The defense objects to having an FBI agent monitor conversatio
ns between Tsarnaev and his siblings during prison visits.  Judge George O'Toole
 has indicated he agrees with the defense, but deferred ruling to give prosecuto
rs time to respond. Since the federal death penalty was reinstated in 1988, thre
e people have been executed: Timothy McVeigh, for the Oklahoma City bombing that
 killed 168 people; Juan Garza, for three murders connected to drug trafficking;
 and Louis Jones, for the kidnapping and murder of a female soldier. According t
o the Federal Death Penalty Resource Counsel Project, juries have handed down 74
 death sentence verdicts since the death penalty was reinstated.  However, a jud
ge has formally applied the sentence only 71 times.  The disparity comes from de
fendants' convictions that were overturned or death verdicts that were vacated b
efore formal sentencing by the judge. The liberal-leaning nature of Boston-area 
juries also will bear watching in Tsarnaev's case.  Massachusetts banned the dea
th penalty in 1984.   Hoose said in an area that is heavily Catholic, many are i
nclined to follow the lead of Pope Francis, who opposes capital punishment. In a
 Boston Globe poll taken in September, 57% of Boston respondents supported a lif
e sentence for Tsarnaev.  Thirty-three percent favored the death penalty. Lillia
n Campbell, whose granddaughter, Krystle Campbell, was killed in the marathon bo
mbings, told CNN's Chris Cuomo, "When they came out with this part about the dea
th sentence ... I said, well, I don't really care what they do with them.  Becau
se whatever they do, it's not going to bring her back," she said. "I'll never fo
rget her, ever, no matter how much they say.  Or what they do with the guy who d
id it. So I wouldn't wish anyone dead.  I wouldn't."  "Even after what he did?" 
asked Cuomo. "Even after what he did," Campbell replied. Prosecutors in the case
 declined to speak with CNN. Former federal prosecutor Allison Burroughs said, g
iven the nature of the crime, it's not surprising the government is seeking the 
death penalty.  "If not in this case, then when?" Burroughs said. However, she s
aid winning a death penalty verdict in Massachusetts is so unlikely it may not b
e worth the time and resources involved. Others say the government made the righ
t decision. "The death penalty attaching to a case of terrorism where people are
 maimed and killed is certainly a reasonable option," said Gerry Leone, the form
er Middlesex County District Attorney who prosecuted "shoe-bomber" Richard Reid 
in 2002.  Reid pleaded guilty before going to trial. Although Leone said he thin
ks the defense has a chance of beating the death penalty, the prosecution strate
gy should be clear. "The prosecution keeps harping on and keeps drilling home th
e facts. And the facts are horrible here.  Two-hundred-sixty plus people who wer
e hurt and maimed.  Three people dead.  A police officer in the aftermath of tho
se actions executed," Leone said.  "The government will keep pounding home the f
acts in this case, which are just horrible from a human perspective." Richard Bu
rr, who represented Timothy McVeigh, knows what it is like to lose a capital cas
e.  McVeigh was executed in 2001. "In any case where there is huge public injury
, there's pressure on political leaders to seek the death penalty. There may be 
pressure on jurors to return a death penalty, even against their better wisdom."
 The key, Burr said, is to present the jurors with a detailed narrative of the d
efendant's life that can evoke some mercy.  "Clarke and her team are masters at 
getting at a defendant's life story," Burr said.  Yet "she is also attuned to th
e critical need for the capital defense team not to ignore the victims." "The de
ath penalty deprives people of their humanity," Burr added.  "We have to try to 
help remind everybody that we're all in this together."