For a man who really did not want to talk on Saturday evening, Jose Mourinho wok
e on Sunday having had a serious re-think, invited himself on to Sky Sports and 
let loose. While admitting he might be talking his way to a touchline ban, the C
helsea manager launched a live verbal assault from his position on the Goals on 
Sunday sofa, taking aim at various targets which included an attack on Sky’s o
wn coverage. It was very neatly planned and executed by a man employed as an amb
assador for rival broadcasters BT Sport, and James Beattie, the show’s schedul
ed guest, was nowhere to be seen. Jose Mourinho says the incidents  in the 1-1 d
raw with Burnley were 'clear for everyone, not just me' Mourinho says referees s
hould be given assistance by video technology if they can't get decisions right 
. 'Mourinho is wrong to imply an orchestrated campaign, but entitled to ask ques
tions. His players, fine players, are frequently under siege.' Click HERE to rea
d Sportsmail's Chief Sports Writer Martin Samuel on Jose Mourinho's Goals on Sun
day appearance . Mourinho has bemoaned these things for weeks but Burnley strike
r Ashley Barnes and referee Martin Atkinson pushed him over the edge as Chelsea 
dropped precious points in a 1-1 draw at Stamford Bridge on Saturday. He lashed 
out at Barnes, branding his tackle on Nemanja Matic ‘criminal’ and ‘career
-ending’ and recalled for the audience a seven-match ban imposed on the strike
r two years ago when he tripped a referee while playing for Brighton against Bol
ton. And he called for more technology to help officials who ‘can’t see a pe
nalty three metres in front of him’ and claimed Chelsea were ‘not getting th
e respect they deserve’ with a long sequence of bad decisions. It was an incre
dible performance, even by Mourinho standards of showmanship and revolved around
 his four chosen moments from the Burnley game: two failed penalty appeals and t
wo challenges by Barnes. ‘What can I say that everybody doesn’t know?’ the
 Chelsea manager began. ‘Sometimes there is space for discussion where you hav
e one view and I have another, but I can’t believe these four incidents are op
en to interpretation. This studs-up tackle from Ashley Barnes infuriated Nemanja
 Matic and Mourinho backed up his player . Matic's reaction to Barnes's tackle e
arned the Serbian a red card - he'll now miss the Capital One Cup final . Mourin
ho shot from the lip during his surprise appearance on Goals on Sunday on Sky Sp
orts . ‘At half-time Burnley should be playing with 10 men and Chelsea should 
have had two penalties and be winning 3-0, or let’s say 2-0 if we miss one of 
the penalties. The reality is that in the end we end the game with 10 men and we
 lose two points.’ The first penalty appeal was for handball when a shot by Br
anislav Ivanovic crashed into Michael Kightly’s outstretched arm. ‘The arm s
topped the ball hitting the target,’ said Mourinho. ‘He’s far away; it’s
 not one metre, not a few inches, it’s quite far. Players should be taught to 
keep balance even in difficult situations, making difficult bio-mechanical actio
ns and putting their arms behind the body to avoid this. For me, this is a penal
ty everywhere. ‘The best players in the world make mistakes, they miss penalti
es, and this gentleman is one of the top referees in this country and Europe and
 he can also make mistakes. He made four important mistakes. It is consistent bu
t we must search for consistency in the right way. The lawyer who has lost 15 ca
ses out of 15 is consistent but you don’t want that lawyer.’ The second pena
lty appeal was for a push by Jason Shackell on Costa, but Mourinho went back to 
the opening game of the Barclays Premier League campaign when his centre forward
 was booked for a dive at Turf Moor. Mourinho requested to go on Goals on Sunday
 and planned guest James Beattie had to make way . Atkinson, the referee for Che
lsea's 1-1 draw with Burnley, was criticised for his decisions on Saturday . ‘
The penalty story with Diego Costa started on day one, because it is a penalty a
nd a red card for the goalkeeper,’ he said. ‘Michael Oliver — also one of 
the top referees in the country and soon to be one of the best in Europe — giv
es a yellow card to Diego and a free-kick against Chelsea.’ During the course 
of this 29-minute section of the show, he noted other penalties his team deserve
d but did not get — against Everton, Southampton, Liverpool and Tottenham — 
and insisted only once had he benefited from a dubious decision, when Gary Cahil
l escaped a handball at Liverpool. ‘Probably I am risking my place in the dug-
out in the final because I risk being suspended by having this conversation in a
 studio,’ Mourinho went on. ‘I know in football sometimes you get them and s
ometimes you don’t but it’s too much. I try to be calm and controlled but my
 players are not getting the respect they deserve.’ When it came to analysing 
the Barnes challenges, one on Ivanovic and one on Matic, which provoked his dism
issal for a retaliatory shove, the Chelsea manager said: ‘This Burnley player 
involved in two actions has a grey past. There was a very dark point in his care
er when he was at Brighton and suspended for seven matches, because of a big inc
ident with a referee. Mourinho appeared to be agitated during the game too, airi
ng his frustrations to media after the match . The Chelsea boss was particularly
 unhappy with the performance of referee Atkinson . ‘Should this player be cha
sed because of what he did in the past? I don’t think so. When people look at 
these two incidents I hope they only see these two incidents. I don’t think it
 should have any relation with his history. ‘When I see Diego Costa on day one
 in the Premier League, penalty and red card to the goalkeeper, game over 2-0, t
ransformed into a free-kick and yellow for Costa, I think he has changed country
 but brought with him his past in the eyes of the officials. This is clearly not
 fair. ‘When I finish the game against Liverpool and go to the dressing room, 
the first thing I see on the big screen we have in the dressing room is about Di
ego Costa’s ‘crimes’. Well, I would like to know how Sky Sports describe t
he actions of the Burnley player yesterday when you call what Diego Costa did a 
crime.’ With his sidekick Chris Kamara struck by temporary paralysis beside hi
m, Sky host Ben Shephard admitted there may have been a mistake with the languag
e in the immediate aftermath of Costa’s stamp on Emre Can, in the Capital One 
Cup semi-final, which prompted a three-match ban. Mourinho covered a range of su
bjects during his appearance on Goals on Sunday . ‘Did you apologise to Chelse
a or to Diego or to me as Chelsea manager?’ asked Mourinho. ‘You did not. Yo
u never apologised. I don’t like the use of language and don’t like it that 
immediately there is public judgment. ‘You give no space to the people who hav
e to decide. The pressure was so much that it gave no space and you don’t do t
his with every club and every player. When you say Diego’s “crimes” becaus
e he put his foot on another man you have to say this is a criminal tackle, mini
mum. When Diego Costa had a three-match ban, tell me how many matches you think 
this player deserves. ‘What happened was similar to what happened to Eden Haza
rd at Stoke but I would say yesterday was worse because this was “end of caree
r”, I can’t find an adjective any stronger than to say “end of career”. 
Matic is a lucky guy. I can’t find words to describe what that player did. ‘
Matic had reason to lose his emotions. What are the consequences of Matic’s pu
sh on the other player? Nothing. One second later, he stands and goes. The conse
quence for Matic could be the end of career.’ Mourinho did not appear satisfie
d with a post-match conversation he had with Atkinson at Stamford Bridge on Satu
rday. ‘I am not attacking the honesty of anyone,’ he added. ‘I am not tryi
ng to bring the game into disrepute — a sentence you love in this country beca
use this is always what they use when they want to punish me. I’m just trying 
to be honest. ‘Of course, they are trying but they are not doing it well. If t
he ref can’t see a penalty three metres in front of him some referee in front 
of a screen can’t miss it. It will protect the integrity and honesty of the re
ferees. I think technology can help.’ Mourinho stuck around with Shephard and 
Kamara to analyse the rest of the Saturday action but by then he had got what he
 wanted to off his chest. 30 - Ashley Barnes sends Branislav Ivanovic crashing 
to the ground in an aerial challenge after a knee in the back. Ivanovic rolls ov
er twice before leaping up when he realises no action is being taken. It should 
have been a free-kick and could have been a yellow card for Barnes. Barnes catch
es Ivanovic with his right boot during an aerial challenge in the 30th minute . 
33 - Ivanovic goes for goal but Michael Kightly diverts it with an outstretched
 arm, as he turns his back to goal. Martin Atkinson waves play on. It should hav
e been a Chelsea penalty. Ivanovic fires a shot at goal but his effort was block
ed by the raised arms of Michael Kightly . 43 - Diego Costa goes to ground aft
er  Jason Shackell leans into him with an oustretched arm. Atkinson waves play o
n. It could have been a Chelsea penalty but would have been  soft. Diego Costa v
ents his frustration after being shoved inside the box by Jason Shackell . 69 -
 Barnes misses the ball and almost snaps Nemanja Matic's left shin with his stu
ds but Atkinson waves play on. An enraged Matic leaps up and pushes Barnes over.
 Atkinson sends off Matic and books Ivanovic for trying to take red card out of 
his hand. It was a shocking tackle that merited a red card for Barnes and a Chel
sea free-kick. Referee Martin Atkinson shows Matic a straight red card after his
 altercation with Barnes in the second half .