By . David Mccormack . A photograph of a young mother breastfeeding at her recen
t graduation ceremony has provoked a storm of online debate and once again broug
ht the contentious issue to the fore. Despite getting pregnant in her last year 
at college, Karlesha Thurman, 25, stayed in school and completed her accounting 
degree. At her graduation from Long Beach State University in California last mo
nth, she brought along her three-month-old daughter Aaliyah. A photo of Karlesha
 Thurman, 25, breastfeeding at her graduation from Long Beach State University i
n California last month has provoked a storm of online debate and once again bro
ught the contentious issue to the fore . After the ceremony, Karlesha was proudl
y showing off her daughter to friends when Aaliyah became hungry. Still dressed 
in her cap and gown, Karlesha decided to feed her baby and a friend, who thought
 it cool, asked if they could take a picture. A couple of days ago she posted th
e photo on the Facebook page, Black Women Do Breastfeed, to support a woman who 
wrote of getting dirty looks while nursing in public. ‘I did it to show it’s
 natural, it’s normal, there’s nothing wrong with it,’ Karlesha told Today
. Despite getting pregnant in her last year at college, Karlesha Thurman, 25, re
mained in school and secured an accounting degree, she graduated from Long Beach
 State University in California last month . Karlesha posted the photo on the Fa
cebook page, Black Women Do Breastfeed, to support a woman who wrote of getting 
dirty looks while nursing in public . 'It’s not disgusting, it’s not a bad t
hing, it’s not a negative thing. It’s the best thing for my daughter. More p
eople should do it,' she added. Though Karlesha has since deleted her photo, the
 Facebook group decided to share the photo as part of their efforts to try and n
ormalize breast-feeding in public. ‘Congratulations, mama!!!! Giving her daugh
ter more gifts than one! Isn't this beautiful?! #normalizebreastfeeding,’ read
 the caption. As the photo spread, the Facebook page – and Karlesha - received
 a lot of support. 'Congratulations to the mom for graduating & putting your bab
y 1st,' Michelle Spruill wrote on the group’s Facebook page. Karlesha brought 
along her three-month-old daughter Aaliyah to her graduation last month . 'I bre
ast-fed all 3 of my babies. I didn't let my babies starve because of how it woul
d make someone else feel. Good job!' As well as support, the photo also drew som
e negative comments as well. Some people though it was inappropriate and that sh
e should have covered up. 'Maybe I still have sleep in my eyes but did U just se
e a pic of a chick really breastfeeding during middle of her graduation?' tweete
d Moderate. Karlesha, however, has no regrets. ‘I was proud of the fact that n
ot only did I graduate but that I got to share the moment with the one person wh
o is the most important to me and that is my daughter,’ she told Today.