New Zealand scrum-half Shaun Johnson has capped a memorable 12 months by winning
 the 2014 Rugby League World Golden Boot - seeing off the challenge of union con
vert Sam Burgess for the honour. The New Zealand Warriors playmaker, who broke E
ngland's hearts with a last-minute try and conversion in the semi-finals of the 
2013 World Cup, produced a man-of-the-match performance in the 2014 Four Nations
 Series final in Wellington last month as the Kiwis defeated Australia to lift t
he title - a performance that impressed the 13-man Golden Boot voting panel. For
 the second successive year, English forward Burgess - who swapped South Sydney 
for Bath in October - came second in the voting but, whereas 12 months ago Burge
ss was within seven points of Johnathan Thurston, this time Johnson was a decisi
ve winner, collecting almost twice as many points as his nearest rival. Johnson 
becomes only the fourth New Zealander to win the prestigious award, following in
 the footsteps of Hugh McGahan, Stacey Jones and Benji Marshall. Shaun Johnson h
as capped a memorable 12 months by winning the 2014 Rugby League World Golden Bo
ot . Johnson said: 'Being a rugby league fan growing up, I always knew about the
 Golden Boot award. 'I was pretty aware of the players who'd won it before becau
se they were players that I grew up watching like Stacey Jones and Andrew Johns.
 Then there were the current players that I admire like Thurston. To receive it 
is pretty unreal to be honest. 'I felt I finished the year really well and was a
ble to take that into the Four Nations and was really happy with how I played fo
r the Kiwis. 'It was just made easy by the culture that we have there now and th
e group of players that we have around us. There's no way I could have received 
this award without those boys playing their part, and I'll accept it on their be
half.' The panel of 13 judges comprised representatives from Australia, England,
 France and New Zealand, including former Golden Boot winner Garry Schofield, ex
-Great Britain coach Brian Noble and past Kiwi internationals Robbie Hunter-Paul
 and Daryl Halligan. On a six-man shortlist. Johnson claimed 44 points, Burgess 
23, with James Graham third on 18 and Greg Inglis fourth with 17. Double winner 
Thurston - who missed the Four Nations through injury - polled 13 points and Kiw
i prop Jesse Bromwich two. Johnson becomes only the fourth New Zealander to win 
the prestigious award, following in the footsteps of Hugh McGahan, Stacey Jones 
and Benji Marshall . 'As is always the case with the Rugby League World Golden B
oot, we asked the judges to consider the performances on the international stage
 first and foremost, and it's undeniable that Shaun Johnson had the biggest impa
ct at that level in 2014,' RLW editor Gareth Walker said. 'Throughout the entire
 tournament he provided a devastating mix of organising the New Zealand side and
 producing moments of individual brilliance himself.' The Kiwis' Four Nations tr
iumph is reflected in the selection of a record number of players in the world t
eam of the year - six. Dean Whare lines up at centre with Manu Vatuvei flanking 
him on the wing, with Johnson in the halves. Bromwich, Kevin Proctor and Simon M
annering pack down in the mythical side. Burgess is named at loose forward, with
 prop Graham and wing Ryan Hall England's other inclusions. The Australians are 
Inglis, Michael Jennings, Thurston and Cameron Smith.