Adolf Hitler's grand plans for the 'supercapital' of the Third Reich, which he i
ntended to rename Germania, are detailed in a new exhibition. Staged in a vast N
azi bunker, 'The Myth of Germania: Vision and Crimes' features the 'Hall of the 
People' which was to be twice the size of St Peter's Basilica in Rome with room 
for 180,000 people. A giant map shows plans for a five-mile-long boulevard desig
ned to be flanked by towering buildings celebrating Nazi prestige. Scroll down f
or video . Hitler designed the ‘Hall of the People’ (pictured) which was to 
be twice the size of St. Peter’s Basilica in Rome with a dome 16 times the siz
e and room inside for 180,000 people . The new city was to be the biggest in the
 world with a stadium (pictured), avenues and statues which Hitler proclaimed wo
uld last for 1,000 years . The new city was to be the biggest in the world with 
grand buildings, avenues and statues which Hitler proclaimed would last for 1,00
0 years. But due to the war, all that was realised of Hitler's plans for Berlin 
are huge street lights on an avenue leading up to the Brandenburg Gate. The Berl
in exhibition reveals architect Albert Speer – who escaped the death penalty a
t the Nuremberg Trials after claiming not to know about the extermination of the
 Jews – was told to use Jewish slave labourers. He ordered evictions in the de
molition zones so building could be completed quickly once Germany had won the w
ar. 'Germania' Architect Albert Speer (left)  was told to use Jewish slave labou
rers by Hitler (right) Hitler's utopian plans to rebuild Berlin on a monumental 
scale were never realised, but the preparations involved demolitions and the use
 of slave labour . Curator Gernot Schaulinski said: 'This is not about 'Germania
' as the hobby of a dictator It's about the intentions of such a project, the id
eology behind it, and those who suffered because of it' 'Aryan' residents forced
 out were to move into 24,000 apartments formerly occupied by Berlin's Jews. Cur
ator Gernot Schaulinski said: 'This is not about 'Germania' as the hobby of a di
ctator It's about the intentions of such a project, the ideology behind it, and 
those who suffered because of it.' The exhibition has been organised by the Berl
in Underground association which explores and opens up Nazi-era bunkers and buil
dings for public show. It is being staged in a vast bunker built by the Nazis in
 the Wedding district of Berlin which has become a tourist attraction in its own
 right. To meet demand for construction materials for 'Germania', Hitler, Speer 
and SS military commander Heinrich Himmler agreed to use concentration camp inma
tes as manpower. The SS built the world's largest brickworks in Oranienburg, a c
amp near Berlin where many inmates were murdered or died from the work.