America 
  
 Staffers Walk Out Of Congress In Protest Over Brown And Garner Cases 
  
 i itoggle caption Alex Wong/Getty Images Alex Wong/Getty Images 
  
 Dozens of congressional staff members walked out of the Capitol at 3:30 p.m. ET
 Thursday, in a show of support for protesters angered by recent grand jury deci
sions not to indict police officers in the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garn
er. 
  
 Wearing suits, ties and overcoats, the staffers stood several rows deep on the 
steps of Capitol Hill before making the hands-up gesture that has come to symbol
ize frustration with the deaths of the two unarmed black men at the hands of pol
ice. They stood silently with their arms raised for a moment before disbanding a
nd walking down the steps. 
  
 While the event was spearheaded by the Congressional Black Associates, it also 
drew other staff members, including the Congressional Asian Pacific American Sta
ff Association and the Congressional Hispanic Staff Association, according to CN
N. 
  
 A few members of Congress came out to the steps, including Rep. Elijah Cummings
, D-Md., and Rep. Marc Veasey, D-Texas. The short event included a prayer from U
.S. Senate Chaplain Barry Black. 
  
 The protest comes a week after Rep. Marcia L. Fudge, chair of the Congressional
 Black Caucus, said she was "deeply disappointed" by a Staten Island grand jury'
s decision not to level charges in the Garner case. 
  
 Noting that the decision was similar to another jury's findings in Ferguson, Mo
., Fudge wrote: 
  
 "In the span of two weeks, this nation seems to have heard one message loud and
 clear: there will be no accountability for taking Black lives. As an American, 
it is growing increasingly difficult to believe that there is justice for all." 
||||| Story highlights Congressional staffers are planning to walk off their job
s Thursday at 3:30 p.m. 
  
 Staffers said they are showing solidarity to communities affected by a decision
s not to indict officers in killing unarmed black men 
  
 Congressional staffers plan to walk off their jobs Thursday afternoon to show t
heir support for the families of Michael Brown and Eric Garner in the wake of th
e decision by two grand juries not to indict the police officers responsible for
 their deaths, according to three staffers who plan to participate in the event.
 
  
 The planned walkout comes after days of protests across the country, including 
in Washington, D.C., where demonstrators have marched through downtown, blocking
 roads and bridges on an almost nightly basis since last Wednesday's decision by
 a grand jury in Staten Island not to indict Officer Daniel Pantaleo in the chok
ehold death of Garner. 
  
 "We're proud to have this moment of solidarity with the families of Michael Bro
wn and Eric Garner and the thousands of peaceful protesters around the country w
ho are telling this country that black lives matter," said one staffer who was h
elping to plan the event. 
  
 The Congressional Asian Pacific American Staff Association and the Congressiona
l Hispanic Staff Association joined black staffers and the Congressional Black A
ssociates in planning the event, which is set to take place at 3:30 p.m., and is
 expected to draw at least 50 people. A staffer who planned to attend the protes
t said it was important to show support across racial lines. 
  
 "I believe it's important, because what affects one community really affects th
e entire country," the staffer told CNN. "It's not just one group of minorities 
that's affected. How one group is treated affects Asians, Hispanics, women. It's
 important that we show our solidarity and come together and really speak out ab
out the injustices that are being done." 
  
 The group will gather in front of the Capitol and plan to take a photo at 345 p
.m. U.S. Senate Chaplain Barry Black is expected to pray for the grieving famili
es and to pray for peace. 
  
 The US Capitol dome is cocooned in scaffolding on October 28, 2014 in Washingto
n, DC as it undergoes its first comprehensive repairs in more than half a centur
y a century. The two-year, USD 60 million project is aimed at repairing nearly 1
,300 cracks that have emerged in the nine-million-pound (4.1-million-kilogram) c
ast iron dome, according to the Architect of the Capitol (AOC) office. Construct
ion on the dome began in 1855. Work symbolically continued through the US Civil 
War and the structure was eventually completed in 1866. AFP Photo/Paul J. Richar
ds (Photo credit should read ) 
  
 "We're not trying to cause any type of controversy," one staffer told CNN. "We'
re just trying to highlight this issue, to show solidarity with people who have 
been affected." 
  
 Chaplain Black has drawn attention before for his topical prayers. Last year du
ring the budget battle that shut down the government for 16 days, he opened each
 session with a prayer appealing the lawmakers to end the impasse. 
  
 "Obviously, there are probably some people who feel that my prayers should not 
have been as pointed as they were," Black told CNN's Anderson Cooper after the s
hutdown had ended. "My prayers simply reflect the reality of the environment tha
t I am in." 
  
 Black could not be reached immediately reached for comment ahead of the event. 
||||| Over a hundred black congressional staffers and several black lawmakers st
aged a walkout at the Capitol this afternoon, leading a silent protest on the st
eps of the Capitol over the recent police killing involving Ferguson and Eric Ga
rner. 
  
 Reps. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., and Marc Veasey, D-Texas, were among the lawmaker
s participating in the walkout. Senate Chaplain Barry Black led the group in pra
yer, saying they were working as a “voice for the voiceless.” 
  
 “Today as people throughout the nation protest for justice in our lands, forg
ive us when we have failed to lift our voices for those who couldn't speak or br
eathe for themselves,” Black said. “May we not forget that in our national h
istory injustice has often been maintained because good people failed to promptl
y act. Forgive oh God, our culpability in contributing to our national pathology
 as you keep us aware of our own capacity to be instruments of injustice.” 
  
 Alex Wong/Getty Images 
  
 After the prayer, the group stood on the steps of the Capitol, raising their ha
nds in a gesture that has become symbolic of the Ferguson refrain –- hands up,
 don’t shoot. |||||