Once again, this was a Liverpool performance that lacked conviction. Once again,
 this was a Liverpool performance that made you wonder just what their defensive
 training entails at their Melwood training ground. Once again, this was a Liver
pool performance that posed more questions than answers for their manager Brenda
n Rodgers. At half-time, Liverpool had seemed well on their way to a third win i
n a row and although this particular showing remained lightyears away from the d
ynamic and eminently watchable performances of last season, it would have taken 
them only five points behind Manchester United and within touching distance of t
he top four. Rodgers’ side, however, do not resemble a team capable of challen
ging for Champions League football, despite the best efforts of Arsenal and Manc
hester United to invite them back into the race. VIDEO Scroll down for Sportsmai
l's Big Match Stats . Leicester City's Jeffrey Schlupp celebrates after scoring 
the goal to make it 2-2 against Liverpool at Anfield . Schlupp strikes the ball 
past Simon Mignolet on the hour mark to equalise for Leicester . It is a measure
 of Liverpool’s difficulties this season that a victory here - following succe
sses over Burnley, Swansea City - would have represented their longest winning s
equence in the Barclays Premier League this season. In truth, they were lucky to
 escape from this game with a point. Leicester hit the post inside the opening e
xchanges when Simon Mignolet was caught cold and a Riyad Mahrez free-kick cannon
ed off the inside of the post. Liverpool failed to heed the warning. Further cha
nces passed Leicester by before their hosts were granted the initiative by a ref
eree decision that Gary Lineker described as the ‘worst ever’ on Twitter. Ce
rtainly, Wes Morgan did not help his cause by sliding in, arms outstretched and 
flailing like an octopus but it did strike his head and Leicester have justifica
tion to be aggrieved. For a while, there were signs that Liverpool were discover
ing the zest and rhythm of happier days, particularly in the speed and skill of 
Raheem Sterling and Coutinho. They remain the two Liverpool players most eminent
ly capable of raising this Liverpool team when they feel the need. It was this c
ombination that combined so beautifully to slice open the first goal, as Coutinh
o received the ball on the half-turn, pirouetting into space and zipping a rever
se ball into the run of Sterling. Brendan Rodgers watches on as his Liverpool si
de squander a 2-0 lead at home to basement boys Leicester . Steven Gerrard had p
ut Liverpool 2-0 up after scoring two penalties in the first half of the match .
 Gerrard slots home to score the second of his first-half penalties to double Li
verpool's lead at Anfield . Reds captain Gerrard (right) pumps his fists after s
coring the first goal of the game on New Year's Day . Leicester City's Danny Sim
pson (centre) protests his innocence after the referee awards Liverpool a penalt
y . With the score at 0-0, Leicester captain Wes Morgan (left) concedes a penalt
y from Raheem Sterling's cross . The Leicester players argue with referee Mike J
ones after his decision to award Liverpool their first penalty . David Nugent gi
ves a thumbs up to the away fans after pulling one back for Leicester in the sec
ond half . After the second penalty, we wondered briefly whether Liveprool may s
team into overdrive. There was one wonderful effort from Jordan Henderson who ar
rowed a volley inches past the juncture of post and bar, almost replicating the 
Paul Scholes effort at Bradford City all those years. In the second half, howeve
r, all that momentum dissipated. The vulnerabilities of the 3-5-2 system were ex
posed by a direct Leicester outfit. Gaps appeared between the defence and midfie
ld, defenders backed off as Gerrard and Lucas were caught too high up the pitch.
 At 2-2, Liverpool were the side that appeared edgy, short on confidence and una
ble to seize the initiative. There was a telling moment when Steven Gerrard had 
possession on the right flank and with those in front of him stood like statues,
 he gestured furiously for some movement. A familiar groan rang out from those f
ans around the Press box. They have seen this ordinary level of performance far 
too often this season. Nugent takes the ball back to the halfway line as Leicest
er looked to level things at Anfield .