(CNN) -- Progress against global diseases is typically slow, incremental and har
d-won. But there are moments -- such as Wednesday's release of the World Health 
Organization's World Malaria Report -- when the cumulative effort of dozens of n
ations, millions of people and billions of dollars adds up to a true breakthroug
h. With the new report, we have turned a corner in the malaria fight. We have re
duced the rate of deaths from malaria among children under 5 by 51% from 2000 to
 2012 -- halfway to our goal of ending death by mosquito bite. For the first tim
e, the number of children dying from this preventable and treatable disease fell
 below half a million. Progress against malaria is responsible for fully 20% of 
the reduction in child mortality since 2000. Malaria control has saved 3.3 milli
on lives since 2000 -- 3 million of them children under 5. This progress stands 
out as one of the great success stories in global health, even in human history.
 It's especially impressive when you consider that malaria has been with us sinc
e the dawn of man and, by some accounts, has killed more people than any other c
ause in human history: more than war, famine or any other disease. Despite today
's progress, malaria remains one of the biggest impediments to saving lives, imp
roving health and unlocking human potential in much of the developing world. It 
threatens 3.4 billion people -- roughly half the globe -- and is a leading cause
 of school and work absenteeism in sub-Saharan Africa. Malaria literally sucks t
he lifeblood (energy, livelihood and productivity) from the African continent. I
 often compare the malaria fight to the moonshot. Both are human milestones, mea
sures of our progress as a species and a society. And both were made possible by
 U.S. vision and leadership. The seeds of today's progress were sown under Presi
dent George W. Bush with the launch of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculos
is and Malaria in 2002 and the U.S. President's Malaria Initiative in 2005. Thes
e efforts have accelerated under President Barack Obama, who has expanded the in
itiative and recently committed to provide $1 to the Global Fund for every $2 co
ntributed by the rest of the world, up to $5 billion by 2016. These investments 
are paying off, not only in children's lives saved but also in promoting stable,
 productive nations by keeping children in school, workers at their jobs and fam
ilies financially secure. As former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton recently 
said, "fighting malaria is not only the right thing to do, it's also the smart t
hing." Much of the progress to date comes from expanded access to simple tools s
uch as insecticide-treated mosquito nets, and we must maintain high levels of co
verage. But how do we end the other 50% of child deaths? How do we ensure that n
o child dies from a mosquito bite and that we ultimately eradicate this disease 
from the planet? The answer comes down to three cheap, revolutionary tools. The 
first is a rapid diagnostic test, or RDT. Until a few years ago, there was no pr
actical way to get a timely, accurate diagnosis for malaria. If someone thought 
they might have malaria, they had to travel to a distant clinic that had an expe
nsive microscope -- and a trained lab technician who would examine a drop of blo
od under a microscope -- and hope the doctor read it right. Enter the RDT. This 
simple, 50-cent device tells you in a matter of minutes with 99% accuracy if you
 have the malaria parasite in your body. There are now 200 million of these test
s deployed in Africa each year, and they're transforming the fight against malar
ia -- driving timely treatment and ensuring people who have other illnesses -- s
uch as pneumonia or respiratory infection -- get the lifesaving care they need. 
The second tool is malaria treatment: artemisinin-based combination therapies, o
r ACTs. It costs less than $1 to deliver a full course of lifesaving treatment t
o a child in Africa. And the simple fact is: If a child with malaria gets this $
1 worth of medicine in time, he or she will not die. At Malaria No More, we're h
elping to close the testing and treatment gaps in Africa through our new Power o
f One campaign, where every dollar provides a lifesaving test and treatment. The
 third tool may surprise you: a mobile phone. There's a mobile revolution under 
way in Africa. By 2015, there'll be more than 1 billion mobile phones on the con
tinent. They're not only transforming communication and commerce but also how we
 fight communicable disease. Mobile is helping us solve a whole slew of problems
 in the malaria fight: address health facilities that have a shortage of lifesav
ing treatments by providing timely updates on stock levels, fight counterfeit dr
ugs by enabling consumers to text a code to confirm a malaria treatment is authe
ntic, expand the reach of health education to ensure people sleep under their mo
squito nets and provide the real-time data on malaria cases that is the prerequi
site for strategies to eliminate the disease. These tools are helping us work fa
ster, smarter and more cost effectively. With their help -- and continued invest
ment -- we can write malaria into the history books. The opinions expressed in t
his commentary are solely those of Martin Edlund.