(CNN) -- A body found near Lubbock, Texas, has been identified as that of a baby
 sitter seen in a motel surveillance video with a longtime family friend charged
 in the case, authorities said Wednesday. The medical examiner identified the re
mains found Monday about seven miles outside of the city as belonging to Elizabe
th Ennen, 15. She had been strangled, Capt. Greg Stevens told CNN. Stevens told 
reporters that Humberto Salinas Jr., 45, was being held on a $250,000 bond on an
 aggravated kidnapping charge. Police are talking with the district attorney abo
ut taking a murder charge to the grand jury, he said. Elizabeth was reported mis
sing after baby-sitting at a motel for Salinas, who was a friend of the Ennen fa
mily and the father of her boyfriend, police said. The girl did baby-sitting job
s several times for Salinas at the motel, where he lived, police said. Stevens w
ould not say whether Salinas was cooperating, but he indicated the remains were 
not found by chance or through a tip. Elizabeth was reported missing January 5, 
and Salinas was charged in the case on Friday. Are you missing a loved one? Shar
e your story . A relative of Salinas declined comment when contacted by CNN Wedn
esday. Stevens defended the time it took to conduct the investigation and arrest
 Salinas, saying the suspect was a family friend who deceived the family and pol
ice on the girl's whereabouts. But police believe Elizabeth was dead by the time
 they got a report that she was missing, Stevens said. "They [the family] truste
d this guy to speak ... to the officer," said the captain, who would not comment
 on a possible motive. Lily Huckabee, Elizabeth's aunt, told HLN's Nancy Grace t
hat the girl's mother, Virginia, "is holding on the best she can...." Salinas wa
s married and "always presented himself very respectful," said Huckabee, who des
cribed Elizabeth as loving, caring, shy and interested in music. Police have a J
anuary 4 surveillance video of Elizabeth being taken from the Carriage House Inn
, but they did not know of it when they began their investigation, Stevens told 
CNN. According to an arrest affidavit, the video shows Salinas holding the teen'
s arm and leaving the motel, he said. "We believe he killed her while he was gon
e with her," Stevens said. Salinas went to Elizabeth's home and talked with her 
mother early January 5, police said. He helped her file an initial report, the c
aptain said. According to that report, Salinas said he brought Elizabeth home fr
om the motel and went back to get her purse. When he showed up at the house, the
 mother asked about her daughter's whereabouts. The suspect indicated Elizabeth 
might have left the neighborhood with his son, believed to be 18 or 19, Stevens 
said. "He began misdirecting the investigation, leading it in the opposite direc
tion of the truth," the officer said. Police initially classified the case as a 
runaway, but within days learned the son had a solid alibi. They began looking a
t the elder Salinas, who initially gave another location for the baby-sitting, s
aid Stevens, adding police for much of the investigation believed Elizabeth had 
disappeared from her home. "We came around 180 degrees," said Stevens, adding an
 investigator suggested they check with the Carriage House Inn on possible video
. Officers saw the video on the same day they arrested the suspect, police said.
 Stevens defended his department from criticism on the time it took to make an a
rrest and find the body. "These (type of cases) can often take years," he said. 
A candlelight vigil in Elizabeth's memory is scheduled for Thursday night at Mon
terey High School, where she attended, CNN affiliate KCBD in Lubbock reported. H
er funeral is Friday. Diena Thompson, the mother of a girl found dead in a Georg
ia landfill, told HLN's Jane Velez-Mitchell she has issued financial assistance 
from the Somer Thompson Foundation to Elizabeth Ennen's mother. Thompson's daugh
ter, Somer, was taken from her Florida neighborhood in October 2009. The child w
as raped and killed and her body left under a pile of trash. CNN's Phil Gast con
tributed to this report. Watch Nancy Grace Monday through Sunday starting at 8 p
.m. ET on HLN. For the latest from Nancy Grace click here.