By . Victoria Woollaston . PUBLISHED: . 05:04 EST, 6 June 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 
06:00 EST, 6 June 2013 . The world's oldest tumour has been discovered in the ri
b of a Neanderthal who lived around 130,000 years ago. Scientists at the Univers
ity of Kansas took X-rays of the inch-long rib fragments - first found in the Kr
apina rock shelters of Croatia - and discovered parts of the inner bone were mis
sing. Following CT scans the scientists discovered that this was likely to have 
been caused by soft-tissue tumour known in modern-day patients as fibrous dyspla
sia. Scans found that a small part of the inner bone network was missing and had
 been 'eaten away' by a soft-tissue tumour. This condition is called fibrous dys
plasia . Fibrous dysplasia is an abnormal bone growth where normal bone is repla
ced with soft fibrous bone tissue. It can cause abnormal growth or . swelling of
 the bone. Although it can occur in any part of the . skeleton the soft tumours 
are most commonly found in the skull, thigh, shin, ribs, upper . arm and pelvis 
. Fibrous dysplasia is not cancerous but is rare and there is no known cure. The
 disorder is usually diagnosed in childhood or early adulthood. Males and female
s of any race are equally affected. The bones studied by Kansas university anthr
opologist David Frayer and his team were first excavated more than 100 years ago
 in Croatia. The site, known as the Krapina rock shelter, in the north of the co
untry held more than 900 Neanderthal bones dating back from between 120,000 and 
130,000 years ago. Frayer wanted to scan the bones because many of them showed s
igns of trauma and marks that happened after the neanderthal had died. Many of t
he 900 neanderthal bones found in Croatia had evidence of trauma or possible bit
e marks. This scan taken during the 1980s by researchers in Pennsylvania has a w
hite area of overexposure which was the first evidence that a tumour had 'eaten 
away' the bone . The detailed scans show exactly where the bone has been 'eaten 
away' These marks suggest either cannibalism or burial rituals. Researchers . fr
om the University of Pennsylvania took X-rays of the bones during the . 1980s an
d published a book containing all the radiographs. One of the inch-long rib frag
ments was shown to have sections of bone that were 'burned out' in the X-ray ima
ges. 'Burned out' sections of X-rays suggest over exposure, and in the rib bones
 this overexposure was caused by missing bone in the inner part of the fragment.
 Frayer used these images as a guide to take new, higher-resolution X-rays of th
e specimens. His team also scanned the bones using high-resolution microCT scann
ers that doctors currently use on modern-day patients. The microCT scan found th
at the 'spongy bone' which should be on the inner part of the fragment was missi
ng and may have been 'eaten away' by a soft-tissue tumour. This type of tumour i
s seen in modern-day patients and is called fibrous dysplasia. Fibrous dysplasia
 is an abnormal bone growth where normal bone is replaced with fibrous bone tiss
ue. It can cause abnormal growth or swelling of the bone and although it can occ
ur in any part of the skeleton, it is most commonly found in the skull, thigh, s
hin, ribs, upper arm and pelvis . Fibrous dysplasia is not cancerous but is rare
 and there is no known cure. Frayer reported the findings in the journal PLOS ON
E. He told LiveScience: 'People . of that time didn't live as long as they did t
oday; plus, there weren't . very many of them compared to the Egyptians and peop
le today. 'Finding evidence of tumors and evidence of cancers, is - . I don't kn
ow if I want to say "lucky" - but there isn't a lot of . evidence for it.' It wa
s previously thought that climate change and a reduction in tree cover forced ea
rly man to stand up, but now experts believe the rocky African landscape played 
a far more significant role . Describing the type of tumour that was found, Fray
er added: 'They range all the way from being totally benign, where you wouldn’
t . recognize them, to being extremely painful. 'The size . of this one, and the
 bulging of it, probably caused the individual . pain.' Previously the earliest 
known tumours were found in Egyptian mummies dating back 4,000 years so this dis
covery predates this find significantly. A study released earlier this month dis
covered that Neanderthals lost out to homo sapiens in the battle to survive beca
use they were not clever enough to adapt. The . results showed that . modern man
 walked the planet much earlier than was believed and Neanderthals died out much
 sooner than was estimated. Neanderthals had larger eyes than Homo sapiens but d
id not develop brain power in the same way. This meant that Homo sapiens were ab
le to outsmart and ultimately outlive Neanderthals who had to use their brains m
ore for physical rather than mental needs . Neanderthals breastfed their babies 
for over a year - just like humans, according to new research. Chemical . analys
is of a neanderthal child's tooth reveal it was reared on . mother's milk for se
ven months with suckling continuing for the same . period coupled with solid foo
d. The . change from breastfeeding to plants and grains can be established by . 
looking at differences in the distribution of barium – a similar . compound to
 calcium -  in teeth enamel. This . enabled Dr Manish Arora and colleagues at M
ount Sinai School of . Medicine in New York to discover the early life diet of a
 10 to 12 . year-old child that lived in a cave in Belgium around 100,000 years 
ago. The . brains of Neanderthals were the same size as those of modern man but 
. more of it was used to focus on the physical needs of their larger . bodies. R
esearchers from the University of York additionally found that early man began t
o walk on two feet because of rocky terrain and not climate change. The study fo
und that our upright gait may . have its origins in the rugged landscape of East
 and South Africa which . was shaped during the Pliocene epoch by volcanoes and 
shifting tectonic . plates. Hominins, human's early ancestors, would . have been
 attracted to the terrain of rocky outcrops and gorges because . it offered shel
ter and opportunities to trap prey. But it also required . more upright scrambli
ng and climbing gaits, prompting the emergence of . bipedalism.