By . Aap . Immigration Minister Scott Morrison has told an inquiry into the trea
tment of children in detention about the 'moral burden' and 'emotional challenge
s' of his job, but says indulging in sentiment will result in more asylum seeker
 deaths at sea. Mr Morrison made the comments during his opening statement into 
an Australian Human Rights Commission inquiry hearing into the treatment of chil
dren in detention. 'There is much emotion in this serious topic that is before y
our inquiry. There should be,' he told AHRC president Gillian Triggs in Canberra
. Scroll down for video . Immigration minister Scott Morrison speaking during a 
public hearing of the Human Right Commission at Parliament House in Canberra tod
ay . 'As a parent of two young children, the emotional challenges of working in 
this policy portfolio are just as real and just as great [as] they would be any 
other parent in my position. 'But sentiment cannot be indulged at the expense of
 effective policy that is saving lives and ending the chaos and tragedy that was
 occurring.' He said the Australian people decided at the last election that eno
ugh children had drowned while seeking asylum. 'There is no decision that I, or 
any of my predecessors, take as a minister in this area that is free of moral bu
rden.' A group of asylum seekers are transported to Christmas Island in July 201
2 after their boat issued a distress signal . 150 children will be released from
 mainland detention centres into the community. But approximately 700 children w
ill remain in detention on Christmas Island (pictured) and on Nauru . The inquir
y comes as this week Mr Morrison announced that 150 children held in mainland de
tention centres would be released into the community on bridging visas by the en
d of the year. Approximately 700 children will remain in detention centres, incl
uding those in Nauru and on Christmas Island. Concerns have been raised by refug
ee advocacy groups about the effect mandatory detention has on children, with al
legations of physical and sexual abuse and deprivation outlined in a recent repo
rt released by the Australian Human Rights Commission. However Mr Morrison said 
the inquiry should be investigating his Labor predecessors, under whose watch mo
st of the children arrived in Australia. Mr Morrison expressed disappointment th
e commission had not sought testimony from his four Labor predecessors, given mo
re than 8,469 children arrived in Australia by boat during the Labor years. 'I i
nvite the commission to rectify this situation by extending an invitation to my 
predecessors,' he said. Under the Abbott government, more children had been rele
ased from detention than put in, he said. He said just 353 children had arrived 
in Australia by boat since the September election, while 537 were released from 
detention - with the further 150 to come out in coming months. A drawing done by
 a six-year-old asylum seeker currently detained in Australian . There have been
 allegations that the conditions of the detention centres could cause depression
 and trauma for the children . Prof Triggs pressed Mr Morrison for any evidence 
that detaining children for long periods of time had a deterrence effect. 'There
 appears to be no connection between these two,' she said. People she had interv
iewed in mainland centres and on Christmas Island had 'no idea' of that aspect o
f government's policy. But Mr Morrison said detention of young children was mere
ly a consequence of the government's policy not to allow refugees to be processe
d in Australia. That was followed by a heated exchange about whether detention f
acilities employed armed guards and resembled prisons. Prof Triggs said there wa
s no way into the centres except through armed guards. Immigration department se
cretary Martin Bowles took issue, categorically denying armed guards work at the
 centres and calling on Prof Triggs to retract her statement. The commissioner t
hen claimed conditions on Christmas Island were similar to those of prisons, pro
mpting Mr Morrison to query whether she was comparing the facility with Long Bay
 jail. Prof Triggs said she would like to move on. Mr Morrison blamed the govern
ment's lack of movement on processing tens of thousands of backlogged refugee ap
plications on the Senate, which was refusing to pass the reintroduction of tempo
rary visas. The government's policy was to no longer grant permanent visas to re
fugees meaning there was no visa available for them, he said. 'And the governmen
t is not going to allow a set of policies to be weakened that would see an Austr
alian staring into the face of a child corpse again,' he said. A picture drawn b
y a Rohingya child, described as one of the least-wanted people in the world, de
tained on Christmas Island .