A mother who claimed her three-year-old daughter was killed in a hit and run inc
ident outside their Florida home has been charged with murder. Maryann Schwartz 
told police her child, Yeliani, had been run over in the parking lot outside the
ir apartment, but a medical examiner said the girl had died from blunt trauma. Y
eliani was also described as being malnourished and both she and her two-year-ol
d brother, who is now in protective custody, were covered in bruises. Arrested: 
Maryann Schwartz has been charged with murder over the death of her three-year-o
ld daughter . Claims: Schwartz, pictured left in court, told police her daughter
 was run over and killed by an unknown vehicle . Schwartz had been arrested on W
ednesday over child abuse charges relating to her son, but the first-degree murd
er charge in connection with Yeliani's death was added late last night. The 22-y
ear-old had told police she didn't see her daughter get run over, but claimed th
at Yeliani had been hit by a vehicle at about 9.30pm on Friday. She called 911 w
hile on her way to the hospital, and was told to pull over and wait for emergenc
y responders. When her daughter was examined at hospital however, doctors said h
er body was too cold to have fitted with the mother's time frame of events. High
way patrol officers became suspicious of her story, and detectives brought in to
 work on the case said Yeliani had died in 'suspicious circumstances', according
 to an incident report seen by the Orlando Sentinel. A report by a medical exami
ner found the child had died from blunt-force trauma, but it was unable to confi
rm if the injuries came from being hit by a car. Charges: Schwartz, center, was 
originally arrested for child after bruises were seen on her surviving child . S
chwartz's son was put into protective custody, and three children belonging to h
er housemate, Vanessa Morales, were put in the care of a relative after police s
earched the apartment the women shared. 'There were bruises on the children that
 concerned us and led us to think there was possible physical abuse that occurre
d,' Kristin Gray, of the Department for Children and Families, said. Hospital st
aff had contacted the sheriff's department to say Schwartz's son had 'multiple b
ruises on his body that were not consistent with normal child activities', Local
 6 reported. Morales, who is currently allowed only supervised visits with her c
hildren, was arrested on Wednesday for unrelated charges after allegedly driving
 on a suspended license.