New York police are concerned drones could become tools for terrorists, and are 
investigating ways to stop potential attacks. Until now police haven't acknowled
ged drones as a potential weapon, but the NYPD has now said the technology has a
dvanced enough that someone could use them to carry out an air assault using che
mical weapons and firearms. Police want to develop technology which will allow t
hem to take control of drones as well as scan the skies for them before major ev
ents. The NYPD says drones carrying explosives are the number one threat as they
 investigate ways to stop attacks . Deputy Chief Salvatore DiPace, left, was con
cerned about an incident last year where a drone was landed in front of German C
hancellor Angela Merkel and 'could have took the chancellor and her people out' 
A drone which was flown over a packed football stadium in Manchester, England, j
ust over a week ago, resulting in the suspected pilot being arrested . They are 
consulting with the military and members of its counterterrorism, bomb squad, em
ergency services and aviation units are working on a plan to counter weaponized 
drones. The NYPD hasn't received any intelligence indicating there is an imminen
t threat, but has become increasingly concerned over the last year. Deputy Chief
 Salvatore DiPace told CBS News: 'We've looked at some people that have jury-ri
gged these drones to carry guns, to carry different types of explosives if they 
wanted to; there's just so many possibilities that we're very worried about.' Mr
 Dipace said police had also seen video showing how accurate an attack from a dr
one could be: 'We've seen some video where the drone was flying at different ta
rgets along the route and very accurately hitting the targets with the paintball
. The NYPD now sees a drone carrying explosives as the number one threat. Mr DiP
ace's concerns follow an incident in Germany last year where a drone was able to
 land just in front of German Chancellor Angela Merkel as she delivered a speech
. The drone, circled, landed in front of Ms Merkel as she delivered a speech sin
 Germany sparking fears that the device could easily be used to commit a terrori
st act . He said: 'If you really think about what could have happened there, th
e drone hit its target right on the mark and could have took the chancellor and 
her people out.' There has been a dramatic increase of incidents involving drone
s in New York City in the last year, with 40 recorded. In some cases unmanned ai
rcraft systems or drones had flown into airspace being used by NYPD helicopters.
 In one incident this summer, a drone which was almost 800 feet off the ground, 
nearly collided with a police helicopter. NYPD Aviation Unit Member, Sergeant An
tonio Hernandez said: 'We're flying in the dark; we have night-vision goggles on
, we're trying to get a job done and then the next thing you know we see this dr
one come up to our altitude.'