LONDON, England (CNN) -- The super-yachts of the super-rich could soon become su
per-green. The solar sail: super-yachts could cut fuel consumption and emissions
 by using a sail similar to this. Sydney-based technology company Solar Sailor i
s working on a "solar sail" which could act as both a sail and a solar power sou
rce to all sorts of large vessels. Super-yachts owned by billionaires like Chels
ea Football Club owner Roman Abramovich and Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen are 
currently among the biggest fuel guzzlers on the planet. Some of the ocean-going
 beasts like Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum's "Dubai," the biggest privat
e super-yacht in the world, are over 150 meters long and contain amenities like 
aircraft hangars, movie theaters, Jacuzzis, and swimming pools. All of these fea
tures sap incredible amounts of energy. Fuel consumption estimates on super-yach
ts have ranged up to one liter of fuel per second when traveling at high power. 
• See a photo gallery of the world's best super-yachts . Solar Sailor's CEO Ro
bert Dane told CNN the technology could work perfectly with super-yachts. He sai
d the solar sails had the ability to significantly reduce the boats' fuel consum
ption and greenhouse-gas emissions. "We think it would enable people to have the
ir super-yacht but make little or no carbon footprint, which is the big problem 
with these vessels," he said. Dane said the technology worked by using a wing th
at is a solar panel or a sail, pivotally mounted to a vessel so it can be angled
 to the sun or the wind. The "sails" are controlled by a computer which takes in
to account the direction and strength of sun and wind to optimize energy collect
ion. A design project is currently underway in the United Kingdom to create a so
lar sail for the super-yachts, he said. Dane said the company was working with C
hinese shipping company COSCO to get solar sails on some of its fleet. "Our aim 
is for a trail of retrofitted sails to one bulker and one tanker in 2010. Based 
on the results of this, then we would design 'new-build' vessels," he said. Dane
 estimated the sail could save about 5 percent in fuel consumption from the sola
r power and another 20 to 40 percent from wind power when the vessel is travelin
g at 18 knots. "This might add up to a 10 percent saving overall in the whole jo
urney," Dane said. He said there were further hopes that the technology could be
 improved by developing systems to raise and lower sails with fewer moving parts
 and store energy more efficiently.