England’s Golden Generation could get another chance to win the World Cup, but
 they will have to do it in the blistering heat of Qatar in 2016. As a test run 
for the real thing six years later, Qatar is set to be chosen to host the inaugu
ral Veterans World Cup in two years time and many of the players who played for 
England in 2002, 2006 and 2010 would be selectable as over-35s. Organisers of th
e 16-team tournament, World Sport Company, have yet to confirm Qatar as the venu
e but managing director Jawid Bunyadi told the Aspire Global Summit in Doha this
 week that the Middle East was the chosen location and Qatar appears to be the f
avourite within that zone. VIDEO Scroll down to watch for keeper David Seaman fa
ce a penalty from Jeff Stelling . England's David Beckham reacts as he gets sent
 off for tripping Argentina captain Diego Simeone . Beckham is shown red by refe
ree Kim Milton Nielsen and the former England star could face Simeone again . Be
ckham and Simeone, now Atletico Madrid's manager, could go head-to-head at the V
eterans World Cup . It will be an early test of the air conditioning in a countr
y where soaring temperatures have created concerns over the 2022 World Cup. The 
age limit on the 300 players expected to compete in the 2016 event would be 50 a
nd the games are likely to last 35 minutes each half of a 10-minute break. The t
ournament will be played at the end of the European season and if it passes with
out incident it could end all doubts over the safety of the World Cup for real d
ue to take place six years later. Over 300 football legends will be invited to p
lay in the World Cup and Spain, England, Argentina and Brazil are all expected t
o take part. Sol Campbell, at the age of 40, is among those who would be eligibl
e to play and represent England again . Phil Neville (left) and Gary Neville (ri
ght) would be eligible to play for England at the Veterans World Cup . Beckham i
s another player from England's so-called 'Golden Generation' who could play in 
2016 . The ban on over-50s might rule out reunion between Terry Butcher and Dieg
o Maradona but Diego Simeone could come face-to-face with David Beckham and Davi
d Seaman might have to face his 2002 nemesis Ronaldinho. Sol Campbell, Gary Nevi
lle and his brother, Phil, would also be eligible to represent England. Qatar ar
e desperate to allay fears that they cannot host a big football occasion and hav
e already won the right to host the Italian SuperCup this December. The 2016 Vet
erans World Cup would will also revert to a simpler format with 16 teams in four
 groups of four, in stark contrast to Michel Platini’s 24-team extravaganza to
 be played the same summer. Ronaldinho is another who could be eligible to take 
part at the Veterans World Cup in Qatar in 2016 . David Seaman, England's goalke
eper, could return and face his 2002 nemesis Ronaldinho once again . Seaman watc
hes in disbelief as Brazil's Ronaldinho scores during the World Cup quarter fina
l in 2002 . The 16-team tournament in Qatar's soaring temperatures would be a pr
ime test for the 2022 World Cup .