(CNN) -- The search for an American -- whose wife says he was shot on a lake tha
t straddles the U.S.-Mexican border -- has been suspended, a Mexican official sa
id Friday. David Hartley was reportedly shot to death September 30 by gunmen inv
estigators believe are linked to a Mexican drug gang. At present, there are no M
exican agencies actively searching Falcon Lake for Hartley. But the mother of Ti
ffany Hartley -- the woman who says her husband was shot --  says she's "hopeful
 that they'll restart on Monday," after meeting with Mexican officials on Friday
. Cynthia Young, Tiffany's mother, said said that she, her daughter and Tiffany'
s dad met with Mexican and American officials for about 8 hours on Friday. Young
 would not specify which officials attended the meeting but said the family was 
told that the Mexican government was "restrategizing" how it is handling the sea
rch for Hartley's body. Young said that the day mostly entailed Tiffany refiling
 a witness statement with Mexican officials, recounting what happened on the day
 she said he was killed. Young said the meeting occurred in McAllen, Texas, wher
e Tiffany and her husband had recently relocated. Earlier in the day, Tamaulipas
 state attorney general spokesman Ruben Dario Rios explained the decision to hal
t the search. "Our investigators have taken a temporary recess so that we can be
tter assess the strategies we are using to find the body. We are currently consi
dering other approaches to our search," he said. The search was suspended on Thu
rsday. Responding to local reports that it may have been threats of imminent gun
 battles by the Los Zetas cartel that led to Mexican officials to suspend the se
arch, Dario Rios said, "Negative." "We have no official information of threats o
n our investigators." Tiffany's mother said that "we're very disappointed" in th
e development. "The longer this goes the less chance there is of finding David,"
 she said. Tiffany Hartley  told authorities the couple was on a sightseeing tri
p on Falcon Lake, a reservoir on the Rio Grande. She believes the attackers may 
still have her husband's body. Dario Rios said earlier Friday taht Tiffany Hartl
ey has not responded to the attorney general's formal request for more informati
on about the incident. "We still have not spoken to her," he said. Young had sai
d her daughter is willing to meet with Mexican authorities on her terms and on U
.S. soil, not in Mexico. Tamaulipas state governor Eugenio Hernandez Flores, in 
Washington for annual meetings on Mexican-U.S. partnerships, was scheduled to  m
eet with FBI officials during his visit Friday to pledge cooperation as authorit
ies look into the matter. He told CNN that Mexican police had deployed dozens of
 searchers but have found neither a body nor a jet ski. Tiffany said she met wit
h the lead Mexican investigator in the death of her husband days before the poli
ce officer was killed and his severed head delivered to authorities in a suitcas
e. U.S. and Mexican authorities vowed the search for Hartley's husband would con
tinue despite the investigator's slaying on Tuesday. "I met him. He sat right ne
xt to me," Hartley said, referring to Mexican state official Rolando Armando Flo
res Villegas. Her remarks aired on CNN's "American Morning" Thursday. "We talked
 through a translator and he just seemed like a really good guy who really wante
d to just do good for -- you know, his country," Hartley said. Hartley said she 
wonders if the death of the lead Mexican investigator will hamper the search for
 her husband. "It definitely makes me worried that nobody is going to want to ta
ke over," she said. On Thursday, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the Uni
ted States is doing everything it can to find Hartley and told ABC's "Good Morni
ng America" that she is "sickened" by the case. "I hope that we can [find him],"
 said Clinton. "I mean, the beheaded body of the brave Mexican investigator that
 just showed up shows what we're dealing with." She said the United States is "s
upporting local law enforcement, supporting the authorities on the border, doing
 everything that we know to do to try to assist in helping to find the body and 
helping to find the perpetrators." A report issued by a Texas-based think tank s
uggested Thursday that Hartley's death may have stemmed from a case of mistaken 
identity in the ongoing war between two Mexican drug cartels. The Stratfor repor
t, which cites anonymous sources, noted that Hartley worked for an oil and gas c
ompany with operations in Reynosa, Mexico. The couple had lived there for two ye
ars and had only moved to McAllen within the past few months, the report said. T
he truck they drove to Falcon Lake on September 30 still had a license plate fro
m Mexico's Tamaulipas state. The couple drove their personal watercraft to the O
ld Guerrero area of the lake, which the report said is a "known battleground in 
the ongoing war in the Los Zetas and Gulf cartels." The sources told Stratfor bo
th cartels have been known to conduct surveillance and countersurveillance opera
tions on personal watercraft, so Zetas scouts identified them as possible Gulf s
pies, because of their license plate and their method and direction of travel on
 Falcon Lake. They were then apparently confronted by "Zetas enforcers," Stratfo
r said. The sources told Stratfor the attack was unauthorized by senior Los Zeta
s members and "a damage control campaign is currently under way ... to identify 
and eliminate those who engaged the Hartleys without proper authorization." Prot
ocol involves prompt disposition of a body to ensure no evidence can be brought 
against the group, the report said. Sources said that "once Hartley was identifi
ed as an American, his body was destroyed the same day as the incident to preven
t a backlash from the U.S. government against the group," Stratfor said. "With t
he heavy diplomatic and public pressure on both U.S. and Mexican authorities to 
find David Hartley's remains in the investigation, the decapitation of Flores Vi
llegas was a stern signal to both the United States and Mexico that no body will
 be produced and to leave the situation alone." Falcon Lake is about 70 miles we
st of the Hartleys' home in McAllen. CNN's Ed Lavandera, Eric Fiegel and Nick Va
lencia contributed to this report.