By . Tamara Cohen . Fixed Odds Betting Terminals  allow users to spend up to £1
00 a go and are blamed for a  rise in gambling . Betting machines dubbed the ‘
crack cocaine of gambling’ could spread to arcades and service stations as par
t of proposals from the amusement industry. Ministers are under pressure to allo
w the machines – which are currently only allowed in betting shops – to be m
ore widespread. Fixed Odds Betting Terminals (FOBTs) are casino-style games whic
h allow users to spend up to £100 a spin and are blamed for a worrying rise in 
problem gambling. They generate more than half of bookmakers’ profits. However
 they have been subject to greater restrictions since April, when new rules mean
t anyone wanting to spend over £50 must inform staff. Now BACTA, which represen
ts the British amusement industry, is lobbying to be allowed to host the machine
s. In a letter to MPs and peers, the trade body says if the Government has not c
racked down on the terminals, then they should be allowed in ‘any regulated ad
ult-only gambling establishment’. It adds that it is ‘unfair’ to let betti
ng shops reap all the benefits from the profitable machines. ‘The current situ
ation... makes no sense and gives the bookmakers an unfair advantage,’ BACTA s
ays. ‘If the Government deems [£50] a safe limit for bookmakers there is no r
eason that it is not safe for everybody.’ Campaigners say the amusement indust
ry would have a strong case on competition grounds. There are around 33,000 FOBT
s in the UK, but Adrian Parkinson, of the Campaign for Fairer Gambling, said thi
s move could add another 8,000. Ministers are under pressure to allow the machin
es – which are currently only allowed in betting shops – to be more widespre
ad across the UK after BACTA started lobbying for them to feature in the amuseme
nt industry . ‘How can the Government say, ‘No’ when they are saying to bo
okies that it is OK to have them?’ he said. BACTA confirmed its position but d
id not wish to comment further. A spokesman from the Department for Culture Medi
a and Sport said: ‘The rules around where FOBTs can be based are very clear an
d they will not be moving into other areas.’