Shoppers could be told how their meat has been killed, with labels on the packag
ing informing them over whether the animal was 'stunned' or 'unstunned', a gover
nment minister has suggested. George Eustice, the Parliamentary under-secretary 
of state for farming, food and the marine environment, suggested labels such as 
'stunned' on the packaging would give a 'clear definition' to consumers. It come
s amid an ongoing row about halal meat and the way it is packaged and presented 
to customers. Scroll down for video . George Eustice (pictured), the Parliamenta
ry under-secretary of state for farming, food and the marine environment, said l
abels informing consuemrs over how the animal was killed could give 'clear defin
ition' In May, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg demanded better labelling of mea
t and suggested suppliers used a designated 'halal' logo. It also emerged that m
ajor supermarkets such as Tesco, Sainsbury's, Morrisons, Waitrose and Marks and 
Spencer were selling the imported meat, while popular restaurant chains such as 
Pizza Express had been serving halal chicken without making it clear on the menu
. Halal meat comes from the traditional Muslim method of slaughtering but is con
troversial because animals are killed by having their throats cut and then havin
g their blood drained. The European Commission is set to report early next year 
on whether meat sold in the European Union should be labelled. But Mr Eustice su
ggested this week that meat products could be labelled 'stunned' or 'unstunned, 
which would effectively alert shoppers as to whether their meat was killed accor
ding to religious guidelines. According to The Telegraph, Mr Eustice told MPs: '
[Backbenchers have] made the point that it would be wrong just to label meat as 
'stunned' or 'unstunned', and that a fairer way would be to list all the differe
nt methods of slaughter. 'The only thing I would say in response is that, from t
he EU perspective, 'stunned' has a clear legal definition in the legislation, an
d it is simply that an animal is rendered insensible to pain almost immediately.
' Mr Eustice has suggested labels such as 'stunned' or 'unstunned' for meat pack
aging, to give customers clear information over whether the meat is halal (pictu
red) or non-halal and suitable under religious guidelines . He also said it woul
d be 'difficult' to brand meat products either kosher or halal because 'there is
 no single definition of halal' and that a 'further complication is that not all
 meat slaughtered by kosher methods is deemed kosher'. And he added that it woul
d be complicated to list all of the different methods of slaughter, and said the
re may not be a 'huge consumer appetite' to do so. HALAL . Halal slaughtering in
volves cutting through the large arteries in the neck with one swipe of a blade,
 while a Muslim butcher recites a religious verse. All blood is then drained awa
y since the consumption of blood is forbidden under Islamic law. Under Islamic l
aw, an animal must be slaughtered by having its throat cut while it is conscious
. NON-HALAL . In comparison, the non-halal method involves taking animals to an 
abattoir where they are stunned before being killed. It means the animal is unco
nscious when it is killed and has an instantaneous death, as opposed to enduring
 what animal rights activists claim is drawn-out pain and suffering. Once the an
imal has been killed at the abattoir, it is removed and taken to be hung and but
chered. KOSHER . According to the laws, in order for a meat to be kosher it must
 come from an animal that is ruminant and have split hooves. Ruminant animals ch
ew food once and swallow, before regurgitating it and chewing again. Before slau
ghtering, the animal must be healthy and uninjured and a sharp knife is used to 
slice through the main arteries and windpipe, causing a drop in blood pressure t
hat causes the animal to lose consciousness. Huw Irranca-Davies, the shadow envi
ronment minister, said the labelling of meat had been 'roundly and rightly rejec
ted' by MPs last year. However, he said that if all different types of slaughter
 should be labelled then 'make room on the label for slaughter by electrical cur
rent, or by carbon dioxide, inert gas, captive bolt pistol, gunshot or free bull
et and so on.' 'Some advocate doing so, and it would certainly satisfy the need 
for transparency,' he added. The row over the labelling of halal meat was sparke
d in May when it emerged millions of people were being sold halal and kosher mea
t without being told. Several restaurants such as Pizza Express, KFC and Subway 
were found to be selling halal meat – mainly chicken – without printing the 
information on menus. Chains including Domino's, GBK, Nando's, KFC, Ask and Slug
 & Lettuce also admitted to using halal meat in some dishes, mainly chicken, and
 locations. At least ten top higher education establishments - including Oxford 
University and the University of Manchester – were also found to be secretly s
erving up meat from potentially unstunned animals. In Manchester, 85 per cent of
 all meat served was found to unlabelled halal meal, while all the chicken serve
d at universities in Sheffield and Exeter - which is halal - was not marked as s
o. Cardiff and Lincoln were also found to be among the universities serving sign
ificant quantities of the meat, without telling consumers. It also emerged that 
most of the major supermarkets were selling New Zealand lamb killed according to
 halal ritual without providing labels. The switch to slaughtering animals in li
ne with Islamic ritual helps supermarket chains save money because the end produ
ct can be eaten by Muslims and non-Muslims alike. Both halal and kosher slaughte
r involve a religious ritual in which the throat is cut. But some animals are no
t stunned beforehand, which is said to leave them in pain. The ongoing row abou
t halal meat and the way it is packaged and presented to customers was sparked i
n May, after it was revealed millions of people were being sold halal and kosher
 meat without being told (file picture) In conventional slaughterhouses, cows, s
heep and chicken are stunned, usually with an electric shock, to ensure they are
 unconscious before their throats are cut. This is said to minimise their suffer
ing. After it emerged that halal was widely sold unknowingly to consumers, Mr Cl
egg demanded better labelling of meat. He said that while he personally had 'no 
problem' eating halal meat, produce should be clearly labelled because 'consumer
s want to know more about how the food arrived on their plate.' Religious groups
 from all faiths, vets and animal welfare groups have also previously joined cal
ls for new labels to identify halal or kosher meat.