(CNN) -- The World Cup's focus on attacking football has won global praise but a
 cloud scurried across the tournament Tuesday as match fixing claims surrounding
 Cameroon's participation in the event emerged. The Cameroon Football Associatio
n (Fecafoot) has confirmed it's investigating allegations made in the German med
ia that seven of its players were involved in match fixing during the group stag
es of the World Cup finals in Brazil. While previous investigations centered on 
trying to fix international friendlies or low-profile qualifiers, this is the fi
rst time since 1982 that World Cup group stage games have come under scrutiny. T
he "Indomitable Lions" were drawn in the same pool as Croatia, Mexico and host n
ation Brazil, losing all three games. A convicted match fixer spoke to German ma
gazine Der Spiegel correctly predicting one of the results of the African nation
. "We wish to inform the general public that, though not yet contacted by FIFA i
n regards to this affair, our administration has already instructed its Ethics C
ommittee, to further investigate these accusations," said a Fecafoot statement. 
Wilson Raj Perumal, who was detained by police in Finland earlier this year on a
n international arrest warrant, told Der Spiegel that Cameroon would lose to Cro
atia while also having a player sent off. CNN has not been able to independently
 verify the Der Spiegel report. Midfielder Alex Song was red carded during the g
ame for lashing out at Croatia striker Mario Mandzukic, while goals from Ivica O
lic, Ivan Perisic and a brace from Mandzukic without reply secured a 4-0 victory
. The match also saw Cameroon players Benoit Assou-Ekotto and Benjamin Moukandjo
 aggressively confront each other, with television pictures appearing to show As
sou-Ekotto attempting to head-butt Moukandjo. CNN contacted Song's agent althoug
h he was not immediately available for comment. The Fecafoot statement continued
: "Recent allegations of fraud around Cameroon 2014 FIFA World Cup three prelimi
nary games, especially Cameroon vs. Croatia, as well of the 'existence of seven 
bad apples (in our national team)' do not reflect the values and principles prom
oted by our administration, in line with FIFA Code of Conduct and the ethics of 
our nation." In the Der Spiegel interview, Perumal, who CNN is trying to contact
, used the expression "seven bad apples." A FIFA spokesperson told reporters Tue
sday that they could not comment on whether an investigation was underway on the
 manipulation of games. Fecafoot meanwhile added in its statement that "in 55 ye
ars of existence, it has never been sanctioned for, involved in, or even linked 
to match fixing or any fraud of any kind." The investigation marks an uncomforta
ble end to Cameroon's disastrous World Cup campaign. Players initially refused t
o board the plane to Brazil until a dispute with Fecafoot over bonus payments wa
s resolved. Although an agreement was eventually reached, the team's departure w
as delayed by a day. An opening game 1-0 loss to Mexico was followed up by the 4
-0 thrashing by Croatia. Hosts Brazil then completed the misery by defeating the
 four-time African Cup of Nations champion 4-1. In the aftermath of the Croatia 
defeat, coach Volker Finke described the behavior of some of his players as "una
cceptable." "Some players behaved very badly, and that's why we have conceded fo
ur goals," Finke said to L'Equipe. "I know that it is difficult to play with 10 
men, but that is not a reason to lose it to this point. "The game was balanced u
ntil the red card. The Croatians were more clinical in front of goal, but Camero
on also had chances to score. "The behavior of some of the players is really not
 satisfactory. Even when we were 11-a-side, it was not acceptable." In 1982, Alg
eria, despite having beaten then West Germany, went out after a seemingly contri
ved 1-0 win over Austria.