By . Dave Wood . Luis Suarez has little to smile about following his four-month 
ban for biting Italy's Giorgio Chiellini but fans were queuing up to have a laug
h at his expense. A poster featuring the Uruguay striker baring his teeth became
 a major attraction on Copacabana Beach in Rio as it provided the perfect backdr
op for a photo opportunity. FIFA announced on Thursday that Suarez was suspended
 from all football-related activity until the end of October and he would miss U
ruguay's next nine internationals. The news was relayed to commuters over the tr
avel message boards on London Underground. VIDEO Scroll down for hilarious Suare
z gif depicts the the Uruguay striker as Jaws . Tourist attraction: Fans queued 
up to stand next to a Luis Suarez poster on Copacabana Beach in Rio . Tourist at
traction: Fans queued up to stand next to a Luis Suarez poster on Copacabana Bea
ch in Rio . It didn't take long for Luis Suarez's bite on Giorgio Chiellini to v
iral - although perhaps people were expecting it. Within . moments of the Urugua
y striker appearing to sink his teeth into . Chiellini's shoulder fans were scan
ning the net for photos and video . clips of the incident. And quick-thinking in
ternet wizzes were putting together their best efforts to create viral jokes soo
n after. On message: Tube commuters found out about the lengthy ban given to Sua
rez on the digital screen . On message: Tube commuters found out about the lengt
hy ban given to Suarez on the digital screen . On the ball: The news broke just 
before the busy evening rush hour . Viral: This was tweeted supposedly depicting
 Luis Suarez as a child with a Hannibal mask on . Solid gold: Suarez picked up a
nother award after a great season, according to some on Twitter . Yummy: Snicker
s' Twitter account got in on the act by publishing this viral with #luissuarez .
 Starving: Suarez's head has been added to the game Hungry Hippos as well . He's
 got my arm! Suarez (right) is depicted as having taken off Chiellini's arm with
 his bite . They've got him! Suarez depitced being captured like a dog following
 his biting incident . There's something in the water... Suarez is depicted as J
aws in this viral . Jokes: At least some could see the funny side of Suarez's ac
tions - including some edited Panini stickers . Chez Suarez: Which other footbal
lers could be on the menu? Biter: @SBNation cast Suarez as blood-sucking vampire
 Dracula after he appeared to aim a bite at Chiellini . Reaction: Hilarious vine
 depicting what Chiellini's response to the Suarez incident would be . An Argent
inian twitter user was subjected to abuse on the social media site as fans confu
sed him for Luis Suarez. Diego . Suarez, whose twitter handle is @Suarez, receiv
ed so many vile tweets . that he said he was considering closing his account dow
n. 'Please . stop I am not Uruguayan, I am not Luis Suarez' the unfortunate . Ar
gentinian tweeted. 'I am not Luis Suarez, there are many Suarez in the . world'.
 Chiellini was subject to a shocking attack by Liverpool forward Suarez, who sun
k . his teeth into his opponent just before Diego Godin's matchwinner in Uruguay
's 1-0 win. It . wasn't the first time that the Uruguayan has sunk his teeth int
o an . opponent. Chelsea's Branislav Ivanovic and PSV Eindhoven's Otman Bakkal .
 were previous victims in 2013 and 2010 respectively. Christmas stocking filler:
 The Suarez bottle opener would probably be a best-seller if it was real . Spot 
the difference: Luis Suarez sinks his teeth into Branislav Ivanovic . Doubled up
: And then of course there was another Suarez heat-map, this time showing his im
pact on Chiellini . Better option: Chicken chain Nando's were one of the first t
o reach out to the Uruguay striker with other options . Fancy an Italian? And Be
lla Italia were quick to follow up with an offer at one of their 90 UK restauran
ts . Proof: Some even joked about FIFA's overused goal line technology that has 
been noted during the tournament . How many times: Suarez's previous misdemeanor
s had not gone unnoticed by football fans online . Sniggers: Was Suarez's bite b
ecause he hadn't eaten before kick-off in the Group D decider? Bite over bark: S
uarez has been likened to Jaws before and again he is proving it's not safe to b
e around him . VIDEO Suarez in another biting storm .