Philadelphia (CNN) -- At first, a Philadelphia landlord said, he thought one of 
his tenants was attempting to conceal a dog after finding a dog dish in the base
ment of his apartment building. But on a return trip to the basement Saturday, T
urgut Gozleveli found something much more sinister: four mentally disabled peopl
e held captive, including one man chained to a radiator. "It was terrible," he s
aid Sunday, adding the people were surrounded by human waste. "I don't know how 
long they were there." Three people have been arrested and accused of holding th
e people captive and stealing their Social Security checks. Linda Ann Weston, 51
; Thomas Gregory, 47; and Eddie Wright, 49, face charges including criminal cons
piracy, aggravated assault, kidnapping, criminal trespass, unlawful restraint, a
nd false imprisonment, Philadelphia police said in a statement Sunday. The alleg
ed victims include a 29-year-old woman and three men, ages 31, 35 and 41, said P
hiladelphia police Lt. Ray Evers. All seven -- the three suspects and four alleg
ed victims -- had been traveling together, he said, but did not know for how lon
g. Weston is believed to have been in McLean, Texas, with some or all of the all
eged victims. They then traveled to Florida and Philadelphia, Evers said. Gozlev
eli, who also serves as the building's janitor, said he was contacted Thursday b
y the block captain of a neighborhood group regarding suspicious activity. He ch
ecked out the basement that day and found a few things out of place, but no peop
le. On Friday, he found the dog dish. On Saturday, after hearing a dog barking, 
he went to the building's sub-basement and found a door chained shut. He found t
he people after removing the chains. "Other than the barking dog there was no so
und," he said. "... I said, 'What the hell are you doing here?' No answer, and I
 called 911." "This was a total surprise," Gozleveli said. "I never expected to 
find people. I just expected to find a dog." The people, he said, "acted like ch
ildren." The four were in a room roughly 10 feet by 15 feet, Gozleveli said, and
 looked malnourished and disheveled. They had a metal bucket and a jug of what a
ppeared to be orange juice, but no food. They also had pillows and blankets, but
 didn't know where they were or where they had come from, he said. Authorities b
elieve the four were trapped in the tiny room for up to a week. Evers said they 
suffered from bed sores and "injuries that are very, very hard to describe." The
 alleged victims appeared to be malnourished and were taken to a hospital. They 
were listed in stable condition Sunday, police said. The FBI is also investigati
ng. The northeast Philadelphia building is a former movie theater converted to a
 seven-unit apartment building. Police cars were still outside the building Sund
ay afternoon. The four people found in the basement were brought out on stretche
rs, said Danyell Tisdale, the block captain who notified Gozleveli. She said she
 was concerned about some of the things she'd seen recently, including people be
ing brought in from the back of an SUV with out-of-state plates. "I hope I did e
nough," she said. "I called." CNN's Ross Levitt contributed to this report.