(CNN) -- A three-goal blitz in nine minutes sent Arsenal second in the English P
remier League as they finally ended their hoodoo against champions Chelsea by wi
nning 3-1 at Emirates Stadium on Monday night. Goals from Alex Song, Cesc Fabreg
as and Theo Walcott put Arsene Wenger's side two points behind leaders Mancheste
r United, and ended a run of five successive defeats to Chelsea. Branislav Ivano
vic pulled a goal back for the visitors, but it wasn't enough to end their miser
able run of form as they continue to search for their first win since early Nove
mber. The Gunners were handed a boost before kickoff as Spain midfielder Fabrega
s was restored to the starting lineup, as well as Dutch striker Robin Van Persie
, but Chelsea's French forward Nicolas Anelka was absent with a knee injury. Foo
tball's heroes and villains of 2010 . The first half was a scrappy affair as Che
lsea sat back and invited their opponents to attack them, with neither side crea
ting much in the way of goalscoring opportunities. But that all changed five min
utes before the break as Samir Nasri forced Chelsea keeper Petr Cech into a fine
 save with an effort that was curling towards the top corner. And just four minu
tes later Arsenal were ahead. Song exchanged passes with Wilshere, before pickin
g up a loose ball in the area and driving it into the corner of the net. The hom
e side came roaring out of the traps in the second half, as Walcott latched onto
 a loose pass from Michael Essien and drew Cech before squaring to Fabregas, who
 stroked the ball into an empty net on 51 minutes. Little more than a minute lat
er the roles were reversed as Fabregas clipped a ball through to Walcott, who fi
red low past Cech from the edge of the area. Chelsea gave themselves a glimmer o
f hope on 57 minutes as Ivanovic glanced Didier Drogba's curling freekick into t
he net, but despite committing plenty of men forward the champions couldn't fash
ion a way back into the match. Nasri and Abou Diaby had chances to compound Chel
sea's misery, but both squandered late opportunities. Chelsea's defeat is bound 
to heap more pressure on their Italian manager Carlo Ancelotti, who has presided
 over a wretched run of just one win in eight games. "We have to wake up because
 we are asleep," he told Sky Sports after the game. "We did not play well but Ar
senal did and they deserved to win. We must stay focused and continue to work ha
rd." Arsenal boss Wenger said: "We were disciplined, played for each other and w
ere less nervous and perhaps less adventurous at some stages. "Let's hope the ga
me has strengthened our belief and that we can challenge for the championship."