(CNN)  -- A woman who said she had a mother-daughter relationship with slain mod
el Jasmine Fiore told CNN's Larry King on Thursday night that Fiore never inform
ed her that she had been married. An arrest warrant has been issued for Ryan Ale
xander Jenkins, wanted in the death of ex-wife Jasmine Fiore. Gwendolyn Beaurega
rd said Fiore was a close friend of her two sons, and she met the future model w
hen Fiore was just 11. Despite the close ties -- "she called me mommy and she wa
s my daughter" -- Beauregard was in the dark about Fiore's marriage to Ryan Jenk
ins. The marriage reportedly was annulled a few weeks after their Las Vegas, Nev
ada, wedding. An arrest warrant for murder has been issued for Jenkins, a realit
y TV contestant. Authorities believe he's fled to Canada. Fiore's body was found
 Saturday, stuffed into a suitcase and left in a Dumpster in Buena Park, just ou
tside Anaheim in Orange County, California. Interviewed from San Francisco, Cali
fornia, Beauregard told King all she knew about Jenkins was his initial meeting 
with Fiore. "She didn't tell me that she married him. She told me [about] the da
y that they met, which was St. Patrick's Day," Beauregard said. "She called me t
he day after and she said: 'Mommy, I met the most perfect guy in the world and -
- and his name is Ryan.' And she just went on and on and on about Ryan and how p
erfect he was. And that was all I knew." Beauregard told King she's never met Ry
an Jenkins. Mike Fleeman, the West Coast editor of People.com, described more de
tails of Fiore's whirlwind courtship with Jenkins to King. "They met in Las Vega
s. Two days later [in March], they got married at the Little White Wedding Chape
l. That's, of course, where Britney Spears got married," Fleeman told King. "It 
was a quickie wedding. We today talked to somebody who was at the wedding. One o
f the witnesses was an employee of the chapel. A lot of people were shocked that
 both of them were married. They kept it under wraps. And the marriage had a lot
 of problems almost from the very beginning," Fleeman said. Fleeman told King th
at Jenkins was arrested and charged with domestic assault against Fiore in Nevad
a in June and that Jenkins was supposed to go to trial in December. Beauregard t
old King that Fiore, who was 28 when she died, started modeling in her early 20s
. Despite their deep bond, Beauregard said Fiore had ties with her biological mo
ther, Lisa Lepore. "She was close to her mother, as well, but it was a different
 type of closeness." Adding to the horror of the slaying was that Fiore's teeth 
had been extracted and her fingers removed. Criminal profiler Pat Brown told Lar
ry King that act provided key crucial evidence early in the investigation. "It w
as very clear from the very beginning, when they found her body in a piece of lu
ggage, that we weren't dealing with a serial killer. I knew it was somebody who 
knew her and [that her killer] wanted to make sure that she was not identified,"
 Brown said. "This is why he [the suspect[ ended up cutting off her fingers ... 
taking out her teeth. He even got smart. He watched too many crime shows and tho
ught he would get rid of all ID, took away her clothes, put her in the luggage, 
probably because it's one way to get her of an apartment. And throw it a Dumpste
r and hope that time will take care of it, she'll decompose, they'll never be ab
le to identify her," Brown said. Jenkins has appeared on VH1 shows "Megan Wants 
a Millionaire" and "I Love Money 3." "This is a very arrogant man," Brown said. 
"Megan said it right on the show. She said he's a manipulator. He is. He has evi
dence of psychopathy there." The brutality of the crime has hit Fiore's circle o
f friends hard. "Ryan Jenkins is an animal," said Robert Hasman, a family friend
 who said Fiore had been his girlfriend for 2 1/2 years.  Watch Hasman speak out
 » . "What he has done to Jasmine is unspeakable. It's just not right." He desc
ribed her as "a beautiful person who was a very caring individual." Orange Count
y District Attorney Tony Rackauckas said on "Larry King Live" that Jenkins is th
e only suspect. "There is no indication that anybody else might be involved," he
 said. "We believe he's armed because there's a handgun missing from his apartme
nt, which is the last place he was before ... he fled. So it appears that he's a
rmed. And he's certainly dangerous because he's desperate," Rackauckas said.