By . Neil Sears . PUBLISHED: . 19:29 EST, 29 October 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 21:25
 EST, 29 October 2012 . 'Off-payroll': Paula Higson, head of IPSA . The head of 
the watchdog monitoring MPs’ expenses is being paid up to £169,000 a year in 
an ‘off-payroll’ deal allowing her to reap huge tax benefits, it can be reve
aled. Paula Higson, acting chief executive of the Independent Parliamentary Stan
dards Authority (Ipsa), earns the equivalent of up to £169,000 a year not throu
gh a normal salary, but through her private limited company. Ipsa, set up in 200
9 in the wake of the MPs’ parliamentary expenses scandal, states that its main
 duty is ‘to serve the interests of the public’. However, it pays Mrs Higson
 in a deal allowing her to save thousands of pounds in national insurance and in
come tax – while Ipsa cuts its own national insurance payouts. Earlier this ye
ar Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander condemned similar ‘off-payr
oll’ arrangements saying they aided ‘tax avoidance’. Mrs Higson, who runs 
a private consultancy business, declined an opportunity to outline her tax payme
nts. Ipsa also refused to give more details – even though its own website deta
ils staff expenses as small as a a ‘fruit basket’ worth £20. Mrs Higson is 
already familiar with ‘off-payroll’ deals. After leaving her last salaried j
ob, earning £110,000 a year as chief operating officer at NHS Direct, she switc
hed to working on contract at the same employer for £132,000 a year. The arrang
ement would have slashed her own national insurance and income tax liability. Mi
ss Higson, who lives in a £1million house in Twickenham, west London, also appe
ars to be continuing to be available for other work  while being paid to monito
r MPs’ expenses, with her website fully operational. 'Contractor': Mrs Higson 
joined Ipsa in July this year as acting Chief Executive . Condemning: Earlier th
is year Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander spoke out about similar 
'off-payroll' arrangements saying they aided 'tax avoidance' Last night angry MP
s spoke out over the arrangement. Tory MP Rob Wilson, who campaigns against off-
payroll deals in the public sector, said: ‘It is scandalous if an organisation
 charged with upholding the integrity of the MPs’ expenses system is itself pa
ying people involved in tax avoidance.’ Former Labour minister Tom Harris said
: ‘It is shocking if Ipsa is paying anyone a penny towards any form of tax avo
idance.’ Mrs Higson joined Ipsa in July this year after Andrew McDonald, its c
hief executive – who is paid  £110,000 a year through a normal salary arrang
ement – required cancer treatment. She is paid £650 a day through her private
 limited company for 50 days’ work over four months – the equivalent of up t
o £169,000 a year. Mrs Higson said in a statement: ‘In the two years I’ve b
een running a small business, I have paid the taxes I should. 'I have not carrie
d out any proactive marketing while I’ve been doing work for Ipsa. For a 50-da
y contract, I am not going to close my website.’ An Ipsa spokesman said: ‘Mr
s Higson is being paid as a contractor, not an employee, to provide 50 days of c
over. 'The appointment complies with the Treasury’s guidelines for interim sta
ff.’