(CNN) -- When it comes to India travel, the state of Punjab, which borders Pakis
tan, doesn't make it to the top of that many itineraries. That's good news for i
ntrepid travelers. From temples so gold they'll make your eyes water, to food yo
u'll be longing for days after it hits your lips, Punjab is India at its colorfu
l, lively best. 1. Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) Located in Amritsar, the holi
est shrine of the Sikh religion, Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple), is Punjab's to
p attraction. Reflections of its gold-encrusted dome shimmer in the clear water 
of the Amrit Sarovar (Pool of Nectar), which greets those who enter from the nor
th gate, the most impressive of all four entries. To take it all in, it's best t
o simply walk around the marble pathway surrounding the pool. Its waters are sai
d to have healing powers. Devotional music, bathing pilgrims, golden carps and m
editating devotees add to the atmosphere. Worth keeping in mind: There's a long 
line to visit the inner sanctum (Darbar Sahib), where the holy book of the Sikhs
, "Guru Granth Sahib," is kept. Visits are best scheduled for the late afternoon
 and early evening; every night the temple complex is illuminated. Simply stunni
ng. You can end the day at the temple's langar (canteen). The scale of its free 
meal, put on daily by volunteers, is impressive, with 50,000 meals served each d
ay, according to temple officials. The Golden Temple, Golden Temple Road, Amrits
ar, Punjab; +91 183 255 3957; open daily, 6 a.m.-2 a.m. 2. Punjabi eats . The ci
ty of Amritsar has a rich culinary heritage. Building a big enough appetite to g
ive it the attention it deserves is a challenge. From melt-in-mouth chicken tikk
a to cream-laden, extra-large tumblers of yogurt lassi, Amritsar is an Indian fo
od lover's dream destination. The best way to get a balanced taste is to start i
n Kesar Da Dhaba. Hidden in the twisting lanes of the old part of the city, it's
 reached only by foot, cycle rickshaw or bicycle. Founded in 1916, the restauran
t is particularly popular with vegetarians. There's crispy butter-smeared tandoo
ri bread; the house specialty, daal makhani, comes with a thick layer of ghee. A
t Makhan Fish and Chicken Corner, fried singhara (catfish) fillets are a must-tr
y. They're coated in chickpea flour and caraway seeds then cooked. Perfect with 
cold beer. The creamiest and freshest yogurt lassi in Amritsar is at Surjan Sing
h Milk Bhandar; the thick drink is a mini-meal in itself. Kesar da Dhaba, Chowk 
Passian; +91 183 255 2103 . Makhan Fish & Chicken Corner; 21A, Majitha Road, nea
r Maddan Hospital; +91 98 1519 3241 . Surjan Singh Milk Bhandar, Chowk Regent Ci
nema, GT Road . 3. Border face off . One of Punjab's most interesting rituals is
 the lowering of the flags ceremony, held at India's Wagah border each evening b
efore sunset. Wagah is about 25 kilometers from the Pakistani city of Lahore. In
dian guards in red and gold turbans march out to meet their Pakistani counterpar
ts in a choreographed affair greeted with loud applause from onlookers. It's a s
plendid show of patriotism, pomp and panache. To secure good seats, it's best to
 get there by midafternoon or arrange for a VIP pass from the Border Security Fo
rce station. For security reasons, bags and backpacks aren't allowed. The border
 is 30 kilometers from Amritsar and takes about 45 minutes to reach by car. 4. P
unjabiyat Lodge . Punjabiyat Lodge doesn't conjure quintessential images of Indi
a. Instead what you get here are feather-light beds with unobstructed views of g
reen fields as far as the eye can see. The nature retreat in Punjab's agricultur
al heartland is a great place to de-stress through simple rural experiences. Vis
itors can lend a helping hand to farmers, cycle around the village, milk cattle 
or take a tractor ride. Rooms are luxurious but eco-friendly. Guests get a sense
 of remoteness and privacy; there are only four cottages, all set in a wheat fie
ld. Meals are a pleasure. Breakfast is served near the fields, lunch under the s
hade of sprawling trees and dinner on a terrace under a canopy of stars. Most me
als are made with ingredients grown on the lodge's farm, says Punjabiyat manager
 Jagdeep Singh. Punjabiyat Lodge is in the village of Saidowal-Gunopur, about 75
 kilometers from Amritsar; +91 981 870 5508 . 5. Sarai Amanat Khan . A scenic 45
-minute drive from Amritsar, Sarai Amanat Khan is an old, crumbling caravanserai
 (roadside inn). Built by Mughals in 1640, it's a fantastic remnant of ancient a
rchitecture. It once served travelers on the Agra-to-Lahore trade route and was 
a prosperous pit stop back in the day. These days, the historic ruins only hint 
at its glorious past. Photogenic features of the complex include an arched entry
, fading calligraphy, Persian tiles, eroding walls and a mosque. Amanat Khan, th
e inn's namesake, is believed to be the same guy who etched the calligraphy on t
he Taj Mahal in Agra. It's a great day trip from Amritsar. 6. Ranjit's Svaasa ho
tel . There are few better ways to end a wild day in Amritsar than climbing into
 one of the plush beds at the 200-year-old Ranjit's Svaasa hotel. Abhimanyu and 
his partner, Gayatri, are the gracious hosts of this charming, well-hidden retre
at. The owners are seventh-generation members of the Punjabi Mehra clan, says ge
neral manager Deepak Biala. Corridors are dotted with family portraits, antique 
furniture and curios collected over their many travels. Secluded terraces and lo
unging spaces are spread throughout the property. The Rattan Chand and Dev Chand
 suites each come with a marble bathtub and a sitting area framed by large windo
ws. Guest can learn to whip up a traditional Punjabi meal or hit the spa for an 
innovative wine-and-sugar scrub or face treatment with turmeric, sandalwood and 
organic rose water. Ranjit's Svaasa, 47A Mall Road, Amritsar; +91 183 256 6618; 
rooms from RS 6,500 ($108)