Sanaa, Yemen (CNN) -- Yemen's armed forces have a new look after President Abdu 
Rabu Mansour Hadi ordered major changes to both the military's leadership and st
ructure on Wednesday. The expansive reshuffle appears to have removed those loya
l to Yemen's previous President Ali Abdullah Saleh from their powerful positions
 within the military, with several other generals attaining appointments to new 
positions. As part of the restructuring, the elite republican guard and the firs
t armored division will be absorbed into the country's Defense Ministry. The rep
ublican guard has been led by Saleh's eldest son, Ahmed Ali Saleh, and Gen. Ali 
Mohsen Al-Ahmar, who defected during the 2011 Yemeni uprising, has commanded the
 first armored division. "General Ahmed Ali and Ali Mohsen are a headache for mi
llions of Yemenis dreaming of a better country and a real national military," Fa
rea Al-Muslimi, a Yemeni youth activist, told CNN. "It's a good step, but it sho
uld have been done a long time ago ... It won't happen overnight," added Al-Musl
imi. "It will need a few years for this to work out." Amnesty details 'horrific 
abuses' in southern Yemen . "Yemen will head in the right direction with this re
structuring of the armed forces and the ending of the contentious divisions in t
he military," said a Yemeni government official who was not authorized to speak 
to the media. Yemen's military will now consist of five branches: Land Forces, A
ir Forces, Navy and Coastal Defense Forces, Border Guard, and the Strategic Rese
rve Forces, according to a news release from the Yemeni embassy in Washington. T
he Land Forces command will oversee seven regional commands, and the Strategic R
eserve Forces will include the recently established presidential protective brig
ades, the new missile defense command and the new special operations command, th
e release said. A top presidential aide told CNN that the restructuring needed t
o take place quickly if Yemen was to go forward. "We are working towards a unifi
ed army under a unified leadership, and this needs to take place now," the presi
dential aide said, asking to remain anonymous due to the sensitivity of the issu
e. The changes came as protests continued in front of Hadi's residence. Demonstr
ators said they wouldn't participate in the upcoming National Dialogue Conferenc
e unless Saleh's relatives and loyalists who hold key military and security post
s are removed. Yemeni officials have been hoping all the political factions in t
he country would meet at the conference. President of Yemen visits White House .
 Youth activists celebrated in Change Square on Wednesday, calling the latest de
crees a clear victory for reformists and those seeking democracy. "We support th
ese decisive military decisions, and a major part of our demands have finally be
en accepted," said Khaled al-Anesi, a leading activist among the first to public
ly call for restructuring the military. "After the removal of Saleh aides, we wi
ll seek justice for those who were killed by the previous regime," he added. Had
i took power in February as part of a Gulf Cooperation Council-backed deal that 
forced Saleh to trade his position for immunity after a year of political unrest
 destabilized the country. A United Nations envoy remains in Yemen to help with 
the transition. CNN's Mohammed Jamjoom reported on this story from Beirut, Hakim
 Almasmari reported on this story from Sanaa, Yemen, and Mark Morgenstein wrote 
it in Atlanta.