By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 08:00 EST, 14 May 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 
12:30 EST, 14 May 2013 . CNN anchor Zoraida Sambolin revealed on . Tuesday that 
she has breast cancer and is getting a double mastectomy - . as she discussed An
gelina Jolie undergoing the same procedure. Sambolin, 47, who anchors CNN's Earl
y Start, said on the early morning show that - like Jolie - wanting to be there 
for her two children helped her make the decision. Sambolin, who is . engaged to
 White Sox Executive Vice President Kenny Williams, praised . Jolie as a 'brave 
woman' for sharing her decision to have the procedure. Scroll down for video . A
nchor: Speaking on CNN on Tuesday morning, anchor Zoraida Sambolin revealed that
 she has breast cancer and will undergo a mastectomy as she discussed Angelina J
olie's procedure . Relief: She said she did not know how to break the news until
 Jolie gave her courage and an opening . WATCH THE FULL VIDEO AT CNN. 'I struggl
ed for weeks trying to figure out how tell you that I had been diagnosed with br
east cancer and was leaving to have surgery then Angelina Jolie shares her story
 of a double mastectomy and gives me strength and an opening,' she wrote on Face
book after the show. She said that she had been worried about how her nine-year-
old daughter, Sophia, would react to the word 'cancer', but said she assured the
 young girl that she would not lose her hair or become ill, and Sophia was able 
to digest the information, she said. She told viewers that she is scheduled to h
ave the surgery on May 28. 'I want to tell women to be vigilant and dedicated to
 their care,' she added. 'I have been and my prognosis is really good because of
 that.' Jolie revealed that she was forced to . make the agonizing decision to h
ave a preventative double mastectomy, . after tests showed she had an 87 per cen
t chance of contracting cancer. Taking action: Angelina Jolie, pictured with her
 fiance Brad Pitt, has revealed that she had a preventative double mastectomy af
ter she learned she had an 87 per cent chance of getting cancer . Loss: Angelina
's mother Marcheline Bertrand died from ovarian cancer at 56. When Angelina disc
overed her mother's cancer was hereditary, she said that she decided to reduce t
he risk . She . opened up about her experience in the New York Times, saying tha
t she . made the decision to undergo the procedure in February after learning . 
she is a carrier of the BRCA1 cancer gene. The 37-year-old's mother Marcheline .
 Bertrand died at the age of 56 from ovarian cancer, which Angelina . revealed s
he had a high chance of contracting. Writing . in an editorial piece entitled 'M
y Medical Choice', Jolie explained her . decision, revealing that she had the in
itial procedure on February 16 . before having the reconstruction operation on A
pril 20. The star's surgery was successful and doctors say Angelina's chances of
 developing breast cancer have now lowered to less than five per cent. 'I wanted
 to write this to tell other women that the decision to have a mastectomy was no
t easy,' she wrote. 'But it is one I am very happy that I made.' Support: Sambol
in (second left) said she wanted to be there for her son (right) and daughter (c
enter) Fiance: Sambolin is engaged to White Sox General Manager Kenny Williams, 
pictured together in March . Angelina praised the support her . fiancé Brad Pit
t and their children, Maddox, 11, Pax, nine, Zahara, . eight, Shiloh, six, and f
our-year-old twins Knox and Vivienne, gave her . during treatment. 'It . is reas
suring that they see nothing that makes them uncomfortable,' she . wrote. 'They 
can see my small scars and that’s it. Everything else is . just Mommy, the sam
e as she always was. And they know that I love them . and will do anything to be
 with them as long as I can. 'I . am fortunate to have a partner, Brad Pitt, who
 is so loving and . supportive. So to anyone who has a wife or girlfriend going 
through . this, know that you are a very important part of the transition. 'We .
 managed to find moments to laugh together. We knew this was the right . thing t
o do for our family and that it would bring us closer. And it . has.' Angelina a
ssured that having the . double mastectomy hasn't changed the way she feels abou
t herself and her . womanliness, and added that results of reconstructive surger
y 'can be . beautiful'. At work: Sambolin jokes around with her co-anchor on CNN
's Early Start morning show, John Berman . 'On a personal note, I do not feel an
y less of a woman,' she said. 'I feel empowered that I made a strong choice that
 in no way diminishes my femininity.' And she added that she had wanted to speak
 out about her experience so that other women could consider their options. 'I a
m writing about it now because I hope that other women can benefit from my exper
ience,' she wrote. 'Cancer is still a word that strikes fear into people’s hea
rts, producing a deep sense of powerlessness. 'But today it is possible to find 
out through a blood test whether you are highly susceptible to breast and ovaria
n cancer, and then take action.'