By . Associated Press and Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 10:20 EST, 14 Novem
ber 2013 . | . UPDATED: . 14:14 EST, 14 November 2013 . Residents of several Flo
rida homes have been evacuated due to a sinkhole that opened up in a Dunedin, Fl
orida backyard, near St Petersburg Thursday. Dunedin Deputy Fire Chief Trip Barr
s said the hole appeared to be about 12-feet wide when officials arrived on the 
scene around 6am, but grew to 40-feet-wide and 30-feet-deep by 9am. Residents of
 seven neighboring houses were evacuated as a precaution and power has been shut
 off in the area. No injuries have been reported. Scroll down for video . Into t
he earth: A sinkhole opened up this morning in Dunedin, Florida, swallowing up p
arts of two homes . Expanding: When fire and rescue responders arrived on the sc
ene around 6am, the sinkhole was 12-feet-wide but soon grew to 40-feet-wide and 
30-feet-deep . Breakfast: The sinkhole gobbled up a boat, pool and one home's ma
ster bedroom. No one was injured from the sinkhole . Homeowner Michael Dupre sai
d they heard the sinkhole open up in their backyard around 5:15 this morning. 'I
t sounded like banging against the windows. I thought someone was trying to brea
k-in,' his daughter Ivy Dupre told Fox 13. Ivy Dupre said that there seemed to b
e two sinkholes, one that opened up in the backyard and one near her bedroom, bu
t that has not yet been confirmed by fire and rescue officials. The sinkhole has
 swallowed up the master bedroom and in-ground pool of one home, while another h
ome lost their deck and boat. After the sinkhole opened up, the Dupre's called 9
11. Fire and rescue officials told them to grab whatever they could and get out 
of the home. Sinkhole alley: Sinkholes are common in this area of Florida, nickn
amed 'sinkhole alley' for the type of porous rocks that cause the earth to shift
 . 'We grabbed only the important stuff. Insurance information - stuff like that
,' Mr Dupre said. 'You don't really think about this kind of stuff happening.' S
inkholes are common in Florida because the peninsula is made up of porous carbon
ate rocks such as limestone that store and help move water underground. Over tim
e, the rocks can dissolve from an acid created from oxygen in water, creating a 
void under the limestone roof. When dirt, clay or sand gets too heavy for the li
mestone roof, it can collapse, creating a sinkhole. On February 28, Jeffrey Bush
 died when a sinkhole opened under his bedroom in Seffner, Florida, near Tampa. 
His body was never recovered. In August, sections of a building at a resort near
 Orlando collapsed into a sinkhole. No one was injured in that sinkhole. Early m
orning surprise: According to homeowners in the area, the sinkhole opened up at 
about 5:15 this morning . 'After the Seffner sinkhole, we were scared,' Mr Dupre
 told WTSP. 'We've been dealing with our insurance company and finally two days 
ago, they started working on our house. Now it looks like our house is gone.' St
ate officials say three counties in the Tampa region are known as 'sinkhole alle
y.' Two-thirds of the sinkhole damage claims reported to the state Office of Ins
urance Regulation between 2006 and 2010 came from Hernando, Hillsborough and Pas
co counties. Dunedin is in neighboring Pinellas County.