Three astronauts successfully reached the International Space Station this morni
ng, where their six-month mission will include taking the Olympic torch on its f
irst spacewalk. The arrival of American Michael Hopkins and Russians Oleg Kotov 
and Sergei Ryazansky after a six-hour journey returns the station to its full, s
ix-member live-aboard crew. Cosmonauts Kotov and Ryazansky will next month carry
 the Olympic torch into open space as part of the relay of the Olympic flame ahe
ad of February's Winter Games in the Russian resort of Sochi. Scroll down for vi
deo . Mike Hopkins, Sergey Ryazanskiy and Oleg Kotov (foreground, left to right)
 were welcomed aboard the orbiter by Commander Fyodor Yurchikhin, rear centre, a
nd Flight Engineers Karen Nyberg, left, and Luca Parmitano . The Soyuz capsule, 
upper right, carrying three astronauts is shown in its final approach to the Int
ernational Space Station this morning, after it blasted off from a launchpad in 
Kazakhstan late last night . The torch will be carried up to the . space station
 with another mission next month. But safety concerns mean . they will not be ab
le to light it when they carry it into the void. The Olympic torch travels throu
gh routes that symbolise human achievement. One . previously flew aboard NASA's 
now-retired space shuttle Atlantis prior . to the 1996 Olympics, but it has neve
r before been carried outside a . spacecraft. Before that passing milestone howe
ver, Hopkins, Kotov and Ryazanskiy face more immediate problems. The skeleton cr
ew they are reinforcing was to have overseen the arrival of a commercial cargo s
hip carrying vital food supplies to the station this week. But a software proble
m left the unmanned Cygnus freighter unable to receive navigation data properly 
from the station, delaying the arrival of its 1,300lbs of food and clothes until
 no earlier than Saturday. Russia's Soyuz TMA-10M spacecraft blasts off . from t
he Russian-leased Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan early this . morning, carryi
ng the astronauts to their six-month mission aboard the . space station . The ho
ld up was necessary to avoid a . clash with the arrival of the Soyuz capsule car
rying the three new crew . members. Typically, at least 48 hours are needed betw
een spacecraft . dockings. The Cygnus cargo . ship, built and launched by Orbita
l Sciences with backing from NASA, . blasted off aboard an Antares rocket on Sep
tember 18 from a new launch . pad on the Virginia coast. Orbital . Sciences said
 the two orbiting vessels established direct contact early . on Sunday, but the 
Cygnus rejected some of the data, which interrupted . the entire rendezvous. The
 problem was traced to a difference in data format in the navigation systems of 
the two spacecraft, the company said. Hopkins, Kotov and Ryazanskiy blasted in a
 Soyuz capsule off from a launchpad in Kazakhstan last . night, reaching the spa
ce station's Russian Poisk research module at . 2.45am GMT. They were . welcomed
 by Russia's Fyodor Yurchikhin, NASA's Karen Nyberg and Italy's . Luca Parmitano
, who have been on the orbiting lab since May. Hopkins, pictured left before the
 launch, told his mother after arriving at the space station that the journey th
ere 'was a pretty good ride'. Left, the intrepid trio wave as they climb the ste
ps into the Soyuz module . Despite the restocking problems, new arrival Hopkins 
was upbeat about his mission. During a prelaunch press conference on Tuesday he 
said: 'As a crew we're very excited to be up there when Cygnus rendezvous and do
cks and (we're) looking forward to opening that hatch.' He and Ryazanskiy are sp
ace rookies making their first flights. Kotov, who will take over command of the
 station when his compatriot Yurchikhin leaves in November, has made two previou
s long-duration missions on the station. During their five-month stay, Kotov and
 Ryazanskiy are scheduled to make three spacewalks, the first of which will incl
ude taking the unlit Olympic torch outside the airlock. 'Our goal here is to mak
e it look spectacular,' Kotov, speaking through a translator, told reporters. Ko
tov added: 'We'd like to showcase our Olympic torch in space. We will try to do 
it in a beautiful manner. Millions of people will see it live on TV and they wil
l see the station and see how we work.' The torch is scheduled to be delivered t
o the station on Nov. 6 by the next crew launching to the outpost. Yurchikhin, N
yberg and Parmitano will then bring it back to Earth when they return home four 
days later so the traditional torch relay can continue. 'Unfortunately we cannot
 light it in space so we will simply take it to space and take pictures and some
 video with the station and the Earth in the background,' Ryazanskiy said in a p
relaunch NASA interview. An artist rendering of Cygnus spacecraft . approaching 
the International Space Station. The supply mission containing 1,300lbs of food 
and gear was . forced to delay its rendezvous after a communications glitch . Sh
ortly after entering the station today, Hopkins, Kotov and Ryazansky had a chat 
via a video-link with their families back at the Baikonur launch pad where they 
had seen them off more than eight hours before. Radiant but visibly tired, the a
stronauts were yawning as they were talking to their families. They had been up 
for about 20 hours. Hopkins' mother described the launch as a 'heart-stopping ex
perience.' 'It was a pretty good ride, mom. It was a lot of fun,' Hopkins replie
d in the live broadcast on NASA TV.