By . Damien Gayle . Abu Hamza saw violence as necessary to defend Muslims and sa
w physical training for jihad as an obligation for all Muslim men, a court heard
 on Wednesday. James Ujaama, a U.S.-based associate of Hamza, told jurors in the
 New York court that the Islamist cleric had instructed him to set up a jihadist
 training camp in the U.S. U.S. prosecutors hope Ujaama's testimony will convinc
e a federal jury that the preacher is guilty of trying to set up the camp to aid
 al Qaeda. The charges against him carry a potential life sentence. Facing life 
in jail: Islamist cleric Abu Hamza pictured in a court sketch at the Federal Cou
rt in Lower Manhattan, New York, where he is on trial for allegedly setting up t
errorist training camps in the U.S. One-eyed, handless Hamza, 56, is also accuse
d of supporting al Qaeda in Afghanistan and of providing assistance to militants
 who kidnapped 16 Western tourists in Yemen in 1998. Four of the hostages were k
illed during a rescue operation. Hamza's lawyers have argued that he used inflam
matory rhetoric but did not commit any crimes. The court saw a copy of a fax tha
t Ujaama sent to Hamza, then a preacher at London's Finsbury Park mosque, tellin
g him about a ranch in Oregon where he hoped to set up the training camp. 'The l
and that we spoke of is about 160 acres and looks just like Afghanistan,' Ujaama
 said in the fax. He added that Oregon was a 'pro-militia and firearms state' wh
ere it would be easy to stockpile weapons for combat training. Ujaama, who plead
ed guilty in 2003 to conspiring to aid the Taliban, appeared as part of a cooper
ation deal with prosecutors and is expected to remain on the witness stand for s
everal days. As a former associate of Hamza, Ujaama is a key government witness.
 His testimony is expected to cover not only Oregon but the allegation that Abu 
Hamza sent a man to Afghanistan to receive military training with al Qaeda. Hamz
a with a masked bodyguard, outside the closed Finsbury Park Mosque: Government w
itness James Ujaama met with Hamza at the mosque soon after the American returne
d from training in Afghanistan . Ujaama said he first met the fiery preacher in 
London in 1998, shortly after returning from a trip to Afghanistan where he atte
nded training camps with religious extremists. The two men discussed Islamic tea
chings over tea and cookies at Abu Hamza's second-floor office at the Finsbury P
ark mosque, Ujaama said. 'I walked away from that meeting very impressed with Sh
eikh Abu Hamza,' Ujaama was quoted as saying by the Associated Press. Soon after
, Ujaama was working for Abu Hamza, writing and publishing articles online for a
n organization called Supporters of Sharia run by the preacher. One piece - titl
ed 'A Declaration of War' - summarised Osama bin Laden's call to take up arms ag
ainst the U.S., Ujaama said. 'Was Abu Hamza overseeing you when you posted this 
statement?' asked Assistant U.S. Attorney John Cronan. 'Yes, he was,' Ujaama rep
lied. Police outside Finsbury Park mosque after a raid: Ujaama told the court th
at he and Hamza discussed Islamic teachings over tea and cookies in a second-flo
or office there and he then began working for the preacher . In 1999, Ujaama sai
d, the two men arrived in Oregon from the United Kingdom and were disappointed t
o find that Ujaama's camp did not have many weapons or recruits. Ujaama said he 
was threatened by one of the men, Oussama Kassir, who claimed to be a former bod
yguard for Osama bin Laden. In the coming days, Ujaama is also expected to testi
fy that Abu Hamza ordered him in 2000 to take another man, Feroz Abbasi, to Afgh
anistan to seek out training with al Qaeda. Egyptian-born Hamza lost his hands a
nd one eye in Afghanistan in the 1980s. A British court convicted him 2006 of in
citing followers to violence and he served six years in prison before his extrad
ition to the U.S. in 2012.