By . Ray Massey . PUBLISHED: . 15:07 EST, 30 November 2012 . | . UPDATED: . 15:0
7 EST, 30 November 2012 . Protest groups and 15 councils will seek to stop the G
overnment’s controversial £34billion high speed HS2 rail project dead in its 
tracks when they challenge the ‘fundamentally flawed’ project in the High Co
urt from Monday. Ahead of the legal battle they warned ministers: ’You may ign
ore our protests but you can’t ignore the courts.’ Teams of barristers led b
y QCs will present five separate legal challenges against the Department for Tra
nsport on environmental and financial grounds over a nine day period to prevent 
the ‘damning blight’ of homes and countryside close to the line. Money waste
d: Protesters say the new HS2 project has been 'an abysmal business case and rep
resents extremely poor value for hard pressed taxpayers' money' The judicial rev
iews are being launched by the umbrella group 51M representing 15 councils along
 the route, two challenges by the HS2 Action Alliance, as well as Heathrow Hub L
td and Aylesbury Park Golf Club. The first phase of the scheme for the 225mph tr
ains involves a 143 mile route from London to Birmingham by 2026, followed by a 
‘Y’ shaped split to Leeds and Manchester in the North by 2033. Objections to
 be put to the High Court include Government failure to provide accurate informa
tion, failure to comply to environmental statute, failure to assess the impact o
n communities, failure to adequately assess alternatives, failure to consider th
e impact of HS2 on other parts of the transport infrastructure, and that the dec
ision on compensation failed to meet Government promises and relied on ‘undisc
losed information’. Proceedings start on Monday December 3 and is expected to 
conclude Tuesday December 11 with the councils first to fire their legal broadsi
de . Transport mess: High Speed HS2 protest poster showing former Transport Secr
etary Justine Greening and current one Patrick McLoughlin portrayed as Laurel an
d Hardy . Councillor Martin Tett, Chairman of the 51m alliance and leader of Buc
kinghamshire County Council said: ‘We are doing this with immense reluctance; 
however we feel that we have been left with no alternative. ‘ . He said the pr
oject has ‘an abysmal business case and represents extremely poor value for ha
rd pressed taxpayers' money’. ‘Far better alternatives exist to . build the 
infrastructure the country desperately needs more quickly and . at far lower cos
t. We cannot let the Department for Transport with its . atrocious record on man
aging key investment decisions not answer for why . these have been ignored.’ 
Councillor Sarah Hayward, Leader of . Camden Council, said: ‘The judicial revi
ew enables us to highlight the . impact of this fundamentally flawed scheme, thr
ough the legal system. ‘This scheme will bring a damning . blight to Camden th
at could last for decades, and the council will fight . for every home and busin
ess, brick by brick.’ Stop HS2 Campaign Coordinator Joe . Rukin said: ‘We ha
ve been waiting for our day in court for a long while . and it is a shame it has
 had to come to this, but the Government have . failed to listen to any point we
 have made so far.’ Protested project: Former Transport Secretary Justine Gree
ning speaks to the media on the Southeastern High Speed platform at St Pancras S
tation in London as the HS2 high-speed rail project was given the green light . 
Penny Gaines, who chaise the Stop HS2 . campaign said: 'The Department for Trans
port have failed in their duty . to adequately assess the environmental impact o
f HS2.‘ . Hilary Wharf , Director, HS2 Action . Alliance said: ‘The Governme
nt is trying to force through HS2 without . following proper process.  Our case
s concern environmental issues and . the consultation on compensation.’ ‘We 
are confident in our arguments. While Government has consistently ignored the co
mpelling case against . HS2, they can’t ignore the courts.' She added: ‘We h
ave raised the money . for the legal actions from many hundreds of individual do
nations from . ordinary people who feel angered and frustrated by the Government
's . flawed decision to proceed. The 15 local authorities party to the 51M group
’s Judicial Review are: . Buckinghamshire County CouncilLondon Borough of Hill
ingdonLondon Borough of CamdenAylesbury Vale District Council Cherwell District 
Council, OxfordshireChiltern District CouncilLichfield District Council Stafford
shireNorth Warwickshire Borough CouncilSouth Bucks District CouncilSouth Northam
ptonshire CouncilStratford-on-Avon District Council, WarwickshireThree Rivers Di
strict Council, HertfordshireWarwick District CouncilWarwickshire County Council
Wycombe District Council. Affected resident Jaqi Curruthers, from South Heath in
 Buckinghamshire said: ’We’ve lived here for 11 years and have three childre
n in local schools. 'My partner has built a business in Essex over the last five
 years and we were hoping to move to be closer to his work. 'But as our house is
 400 metres from the proposed line we are not entitled to any compensation and w
e are left with a big mortgage on a house that is effectively worthless.’ A De
partment for Transport spokesman  said: ’HS2 will bring cities closer togethe
r, drive regeneration, tackle overcrowding and stimulate economic growth. ‘Whi
le it would not be appropriate to comment on the specific claims, the Government
 is confident that the decisions on HS2 have been taken lawfully and fairly and 
it is vigorously defending these legal challenges.’ The Prime Minister this we
ek gave a ‘personal undertaking’ to review compensation schemes for properti
es affected by the planned high speed 2 rail link after being challenged by his 
former Welsh Secretary Cheryl Gillan. Ms Gillan, whose Chesham and Amersham seat
 will be home to part of the route, urged a generous package for those who live 
and work nearby. Mr Cameron said: ‘I absolutely give that undertaking that I w
ill look carefully at the scheme. We are consulting, as you know, at the moment.
’