By . Bianca London for MailOnline . Mollie King landed herself a modelling contr
act earlier this year - and it seems that another member of The Saturdays is giv
ing her a run for her money. Vanessa White, known as the 'party girl' of the pop
 group, has been snapped up by Select Model Management, where she joins their Wo
men’s Special Talent division. Vanessa, 24, will be joining a roster of top UK
 faces including Agyness Deyn and Sienna Miller, as well as talents such as Laur
a Whitmore, Millie Macintosh and Tom Odell. Scroll down for video . Looking good
! Vanessa White, who found fame with The Saturdays, has been snapped up by Sele
ct Model Management, where she joins their Women's Special Talent division . Sel
ect is proud to welcome Vanessa to their agency with a representative saying: 'W
e love her unique personal style and presence, as do her fans. 'At Select Model 
Management we choose to work with influencers who have a strong and confident im
age and Vanessa's style and infectious personality work perfectly for us. We kno
w she has great things ahead of her.' Vanessa rose to fame in 2008 as part of th
e The Saturdays, signed to Fascination and Polydor Records. As one of the younge
st of the group, Vanessa became the only member to sing a solo in every song of 
their debut album, Chasing Lights. Happy to have her: The agency, who has Sienna
 Miller on its books, says they are proud to welcome Vanessa because they love h
er unique personal style and presence . Finding fame: Vanessa rose to immediate
 fame in 2008 as part of the The Saturdays, signed to Fascination and Polydor Re
cords, is known as the party girl of the group . 'She has an exotic look, a powe
rful voice and a determined motivation to succeed,' say her agency. Vanessa adde
d: 'I am so excited to have signed with Select Model Management. I have always a
dored fashion and I can't believe I am now on the books of one of the biggest an
d most respected modelling agencies in the country. 'I feel so lucky to be among
st other great talent.' Love her look: The agency say that the 24-year-old has a
n exotic look, a powerful voice and a determined motivation to succeed . Vanessa
 is currently dating Gary Salter, who she has been with for over two years and t
hey attended Frankie Sandford's wedding together at Woburn Abbey in Bedfordshire
 on Saturday. The Saturdays recently announced their ‘Greatest Hits Live!’ 2
014 Tour, to support their Greatest Hits collection. With performances from Sept
ember 7-23 nationwide, the girls will no doubt wow their fans with a re-cap of t
heir most successful pop moments. Girl group: Frankie Sandford, Una Healy, Roche
lle Wiseman, Vanessa White and Mollie King of The Saturdays recently announced t
heir ‘Greatest Hits Live!’ 2014 Tour, to support their Greatest Hits collect
ion . Where it all began: The five piece group started on their journey in 2009 
and have since become one of the most successful girl groups of the decade .