Authorities in Russia warned the FBI ‘multiple times’ about Boston bombing s
uspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev, though the ethnic Chechen could have slipped through t
he cracks because he was not linked to al Qaeda, it was revealed Tuesday by U.S.
 Senators who were briefed on the terrorist attacks. The federal agency looked i
nto the eldest brother in 2011 after the Russian government contacted them, warn
ing that Tamerlan Tsarnaev may have deveoped radical Islamic ties following a pr
olonged trip to Russia, including Muslim-predominant Dagestan. However, after it
s initial search and interviews with him and his family members, the FBI closed 
the case, and has come under intense scrutiny for doing so. Scroll down for vide
o . Conflicting: Tamerlan Tsarnaev turned from an 'arrogant' sportsman to an inc
reasingly radical Muslim. Studying the Koran alone in Dagestan; Russian authorit
ies tried to alert the FBI over the 'bomber' multiple times, according to lawmak
ers . Speaking with the Boston Herald, a senator sitting in on Tuesday’s confi
dential meetings on Capitol Hill said that the FBI could have missed Tamerlan Ts
arnaev’s radicalization as he didn’t share links to the terror network al Qa
eda. That senator spoke on the condition of anonymity, as Tuesday’s briefings 
were classified. Sen. James Risch, R-Idaho, told the Herald that the Russian gov
ernment also had very different priorities. ‘Their concern was Chechen radical
s. Our higher concern was al-Qaeda,’ he told the paper, explaining that the mi
litant Islamist group was more dangerous to the U.S. in light of the 9/11 attack
s. Lawmakers . again asked whether a failure to share intelligence contributed t
o the . deadly, after senior officials briefed them on the investigation into . 
last week's bombings, the Boston Globe reports. However, members of Congress hav
e not . gone insofar as to say that better or more thorough intelligence could .
 have prevented the bombings, which many said following the September 11, . 2001
 terrorist attacks. 'There still seem to be serious . problems with sharing info
rmation, including critical investigative . information ... not only among agenc
ies but also within the same agency . in one case,' Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine,
 said after the Senate . Intelligence Committee members were briefed by FBI Depu
ty Director Sean . Joyce. 'I don't see anybody yet that dropped . the ball,' sai
d Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Georgia, the committee's vice . chairman, according to
 the Associated Press. Intel: Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said 
Tuesday in testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on immigration legisl
ation, that her agency knew of the suspect's trip to Russia even though his name
 was misspelled on a travel document . On the attack: Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-Sou
th Carolina, told Napolitano that the information contradicted what he'd been to
ld by the FBI . But he added that he was asking all . the federal agencies invol
ved for more information to make sure enough . information was shared. 'If it wa
sn't, we've got to fix this,' he said. Homeland Security Secretary Janet . Napol
itano said Tuesday, in testimony before the Senate Judiciary . Committee on immi
gration legislation, that her agency knew of the . suspect's trip to Russia even
 though his name was misspelled on a travel . document. A key lawmaker had said 
the misspelling caused the FBI to miss the trip. Napolitano's disclosure came as
 news . to Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, who told the secretary that it
 . contradicted what he'd been told by the FBI. Grilling: Sen. Dan Coats, R-Indi
ana, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, leaves following a closed-do
or briefing by intelligence agencies on the Boston Marathon bombing on Tuesday .
 Behind closed doors: Deputy Director of the FBI Sean Joyce, center, enters a cl
osed Senate Intelligence Committee hearing where he faced questions from lawmake
rs . 'They told me that they had no . knowledge of him leaving or coming back, s
o I would like to talk to you . more about this case,' Graham told Napolitano. S
he said that even though . Tsarnaev's name was misspelled, redundancies in the s
ystem allowed his . departure to be captured by U.S. authorities in January 2012
. But she said that by the time he came . back six months later, an FBI alert on
 him had expired and so his . re-entry was not noted. The FBI has not released a
 new statement . regarding Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s trip to Russia since April 17. 
Investigators have concluded based on . preliminary evidence that the Russia tri
p may have helped radicalize . Tsarnaev, the older of the two bomber suspects, w
ho died in a firefight . with police. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was investigated by . th
e FBI at Russia's request and his name was included in a federal . government tr
avel-screening database after that, law enforcement . officials have told The As
sociated Press. Religious journey? Tamerlan Tsarnaev spent much time in the Dage
stan capital of Makhachkala . One official told the AP that by the . time of the
 flight Tsarnaev would have faced no additional scrutiny . because the FBI had b
y that time found no information connecting him to . terrorism. The ethnic Chech
en brothers imigrated . to the United States a decade ago from the predominantly
 Muslim region . of Dagestan in Russia's Caucasus. Senator Saxby Chambliss of Ge
orgia, . the ranking Republican on the Senate intelligence committee, said the .
 briefing raised questions about the flow of information among law . enforcement
 and intelligence agencies. 'I think there has been some . stonewalls, and some 
stovepipes reconstructed, that were probably . unintentional, but we've got to r
eview that issue again, and make sure . there is the free flow of information,' 
he said, according to Reuters. 'I can't say the FBI dropped the ball. I don't se
e anybody yet that dropped the ball,' he said. 'That may develop.'