By . Associated Press . A New Jersey family whose terrier-pitbull mix escaped fr
om their backyard during Superstorm Sandy went to an animal shelter this week to
 adopt a new pet and came home with their old dog. Chuck James tells The Associa
ted Press that his family searched for their brown-and-white dog named Reckless 
for months after the October 2012 storm before finally giving up hope. 'We repor
ted him missing and called the shelters periodically, just hoping they had him,'
 James said Saturday. 'We always kept our hopes up, but eventually it's time to 
move on."' The happy family! Chuck and Elicia James are seen here reunited with 
dog Reckless, who they lost during Superstorm Sandy . James said the family had 
planned in recent weeks to get a new dog as a 10th birthday surprise for their e
ldest daughter, Ally. The couple has two other children, Kelsey and Liam. But wh
en the family of five went to the Monmouth County SPCA on Thursday to adopt a ne
w animal, James and his wife approached the first cage and saw a familiar face i
nside. 'He was a little bigger than I remembered because they had fed him well,'
 James joked. 'But then he was laying on my wife's feet, and I knew it was him. 
... I was in disbelief. I know this dog is meant to be with our family.' When SP
CA officials asked if they could prove the animal was their dog, a friend sent o
ver a picture showing the family with their dog before Sandy hit the Jersey shor
e. Lost: Reckless got out of a hole in a fence at the James' home in Keansburg, 
New Jersey, pictured . 'We're all so happy to have him back,' James said. 'Thank
 God for no-kill shelters because every time they kill an animal, it's somebody'
s friend who might be lost. Thank God they didn't put him down because this woul
d have been a different story.' SPCA officials say Reckless was picked up as a s
tray and has now been microchipped. The family is living in a hotel while their 
storm-damaged Keansburg home is repaired. This weekend, the Jameses went on a ca
mping trip with Reckless to celebrate the dog's return.