Mr Muslem was a recent graduate in English literature; Shireen was still studyin
g.
But four months after their wedding, their lives were shattered when so-called I
slamic State (IS) fighters overran their city, forcing almost all of its civilia
ns to flee into Turkey.
Now the couple and their 20-month old son Mirwan live more than 2,300 miles (3,7
00km) away in Colwyn Bay, Conwy county.
After more than two years in a refugee camp in northern Iraq, they are relieved 
to finally have a safe, long-term home.
"When IS attacked in 2014, everything was destroyed," Mr Muslem, 29, said.
"Everyone left. We moved to Turkey and then to Iraq but some people returned to 
the city. Then IS attacked another time and we lost abut 500 people. They were a
ll killed.
"Every family in Syria has lost one person in the family. I lost my brother two 
years ago and we don't know if he is alive or dead. Some people have lost all th
eir family."
"It was so hard," Mrs Muslem, 28, added. "We had to leave our town because of th
e war and all the destruction. We were afraid for our lives and we had to go. It
 was a bad situation."
"Here, I feel very happy and settled, the people are very kind and when we need 
anything, they help us."
Until the family arrived in north Wales, Mirwan had lived all his young life in 
the Gawilan refugee camp in northern Iraq.
"I delivered him in the camp," Mrs Muslem said. "It was difficult because the we
ather is very hot and it was summer when I had him. I was afraid I'd lose him.
"There is only a small medical surgery at the camp and most of the time there is
 no medicine and the service is very simple."
"I saw many, many bad situations when we first left Syria," Mr Muslem said. "We 
didn't want to live in a tent but where would we go? There was no choice for us.
"We couldn't go to rent a house in another city so we stayed in the camp and liv
ed in a tent."
Since Kurdish forces drove IS out of Kobane in June 2015, some people have retur
ned to the city - among them, relatives of the couple.
"I have two sisters in Syria," Mrs Muslem said. "They moved back after the fight
ing ended. I worry about them so much and want them to come and live in the UK t
oo but it's very difficult."
Mr Muslem has two sisters in the refugee camp and family in Kobane.
"Their life is OK now but it's temporary," he said. "Maybe war will come again, 
we don't know what's going to happen in Syria."
By the end of February 2017, at least 397 refugees had been resettled in Wales u
nder the UK government's Syrian Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme.
Mr and Mrs Muslem and Mirvan are the first to be placed in Conwy.
"I didn't know where I was going," Mr Muslem said. "I was just told in Iraq, you
 will go to Manchester airport and you will live in Conwy.
"When we arrived, we saw it was a good town. The weather is good and it's very n
ice for tourism. There are nice places like Llandudno and Rhyl and Bangor - I've
 visited all of these cities."
Life was lonely at first but after three months, the family is starting to make 
new friends.
"When I arrived here, I didn't know anyone," Mr Muslem said. "I had one friend b
ut the council helped me meet people.
"I know some more people now - I hope to meet many more but I know I have some f
riends.
"For me it's not difficult but for other people it could be because they don't k
now the language and if they can't speak the language, they can't meet people."
He is perfecting his English at a college course in Bangor and wants to qualify 
as a teacher.
"If I go back to Syria after five years, I will help my own people in the univer
sity or in high school," he said.
For now though, the family is staying put in Wales to rebuild the burgeoning lif
e that was wrecked nearly three years ago by war.