Liverpool are heading for Miami to do battle with arch rivals Manchester United 
on Monday after a comfortable 2-0 win over a dismal AC Milan side in Charlotte. 
Goals from Joe Allen and Suso made it three wins out of three for Brendan Rodger
s' men in the International Champions Cup. Liverpool were already assured of top
 spot in their group following Manchester City's 5-4 defeat to Olympiacos on pen
alties earlier in the day after it had finished 2-2. VIDEO Scroll down to watch 
some of Liverpool's highlights from their pre-season US tour . Great start: Joe 
Allen is congratulated by Rickie Lambert after his opener for Liverpool against 
AC Milan . Young star: Raheem Sterling looks to take the ball of Milan midfielde
r Michael Essien . Spurned: Rickie Lambert missed a penalty for Liverpool, a gre
at chance for an early goal in his Reds career . LIVERPOOL: Mignolet, Kelly (Joh
nson 60), Toure (Sakho 60), Coates (Skrtel 60), Robinson Enrique 60), Lucas (Ger
rard 60), Henderson (Suso 46), Allen (Can 60), Lambert (Peterson 60), Ibe (Couti
nho 60), Sterling (Coady 46). Goals: Allen (17), Suso (89). AC MILAN: Abbiati (
Gabriel 46), Abate (Zapate 80), Bonera, Rami (Mexes 66), De Sciglio, Essien (Cri
stante 66), Muntari (Poli 80), Saponara, Niang, Pazzini (Balotelli 46), El Shaar
way (Honda 66). Referee: David Gantar . However, they made no mistake in front o
f a 70,000-strong crowd at the Bank of America Stadium as they easily dealt with
 the challenge of Milan, who had already been heavily beaten by Olympiacos and M
an City. Rodgers used no fewer than 21 players to ensure his squad is ready for 
the first showdown with United since Louis van Gaal's appointment as David Moyes
' successor. With Daniel Sturridge ruled out with a minor knock sustained in tra
ining and £20million new boy Lazar Markovic sidelined by a tendon problem, Live
rpool made five changes following the win over Manchester City in New York. Brad
 Jones, Jose Enrique, Steven Gerrard, Philippe Coutinho and Sturridge were repla
ced by Simon Mignolet, Jack Robinson, Lucas Leiva, Jordon Ibe and Raheem Sterlin
g. Lightning-quick teenage wingers Ibe and Sterling lit up the opening 45 minute
s as their pace tormented Milan's overworked backline. Liverpool were in control
 from the start and took the lead in the 17th minute. Big crowd: Kolo Toure lead
 the team out in Charlotte on Saturday . Relaxed: Already in the final, Brendan 
Rodgers was able to give Steven Gerrard a rest . Allen's work rate created the c
hance as he dispossessed former Chelsea midfielder Michael Essien and burst clea
r. The Wales international fired against the woodwork and Sterling's effort from
 the follow up was blocked by Christian Abbiati. The ball fell back into the pat
h of Allen, who volleyed home in style. Sterling was then denied by Abbiati befo
re Kolo Toure made a crucial tackle to thwart Giampaolo Saponara at the other en
d. Ibe, who enjoyed a beneficial loan spell at Birmingham City last season, show
cased his exciting potential. The youngster was on the receiving end of some rou
gh treatment from former Portsmouth man Sulley Muntari but he picked himself up 
and battled on. Keeping tabs: The Liverpool manager and his backroom staff obser
ve the game . Ibe began the attack which should have yielded a second goal in th
e 27th minute. He raced 50 yards before linking up with Lambert and Sterling, wh
o was pulled to the ground by Adil Rami. Lambert, who never missed in his 34 pen
alties for Southampton, took responsibility but his spot-kick was kept out by Ab
biati. Milan did threaten just before the break but Mignolet grabbed Mbaya Niang
's strike at the second attempt and Allen dealt with the danger after Stephan El
 Shaarawy raced into the penalty area. Suso and Conor Coady came on for Henderso
n and Sterling as Rodgers began to rest players with one eye on Monday's final i
n Miami. There were eight more changes on the hour mark with the introduction of
 Steven Gerrard receiving a rapturous ovation from the 70,000-strong crowd. The 
raft of subs dented the flow of the game and chances were at a premium. Making a
n impression: Jordan Ibe (left) battles with Mattia De Sciglio for possession . 
Ibe continued to shine with another classy burst down the left as he got the bet
ter of Rami but Milan survived. Gerrard sparked panic with a through ball to Sus
o which triggered a thundering collision between Gabriel and Mattia De Sciglio. 
The Liverpool skipper went close from long range before Milan threatened to rest
ore parity. Mbaye Niang went clean through but Mignolet raced out and made a bra
ve sprawling save. Muntari's strike was then deflected wide before Liverpool kil
led off the Italians in the 89th minute. Coutinho raced into space down the left
 and teed up Suso, who swept a low left-footer into the far corner. Mignolet's s
tunning finger tip save denied Bryan Cristante deep into stoppage time as Liverp
ool march on to Miami on a high.