By . Helen Nicholson . The construction of Stonehenge has been voted the histori
cal event that most Britons would like to travel back in time to witness. The ev
acuation of Dunkirk, and the defending of Hadrian’s Wall by the Romans came se
cond and third in the poll conducted by English Heritage. The organisation carri
ed out the survey to celebrate the launch of six weeks of living history events 
across the country this summer, including medieval jousts, knights and princess 
training academies, and the chance to meet some of England’s most famous kings
 and queens. Still a mystery: English Heritage's Jeremy Ashbee said people wante
d to discover more about who built the historic stone circle - and why . A total
 of 2,272 people were quizzed about which iconic historical event they would lik
e to have been present at. The lifting into place of the enormous stones at Ston
ehenge around 5,000 years ago topped the poll with almost half of those surveyed
 (47 per cent) wishing they’d been there to see it. The masterminding of the e
vacuation of British soldiers from the Dunkirk beaches during the Second World W
ar was the next choice (34 per cent), while seeing Roman soldiers patrolling Had
rian’s Wall came third (26 per cent). Going underground: In second place, peop
le wanted to watch the planning of the Dunkirk evacuation during the Second Worl
d War from the Secret Wartime Tunnels underneath Dover Castle . Watching Victori
an scientist Charles Darwin conduct his revolutionary experiments from his home 
in Kent (23 per cent) and the first Viking raid at Lindisfarne Priory (18 per ce
nt) were also popular choices at fourth and fifth place respectively. King Harol
d falling in combat at the Battle of Hastings in 1066 (17 per cent) and Henry V 
preparing his troops ahead of the battle of Agincourt in France (16 per cent) al
so made it into the top ten. Added to this, 68 per cent of adults said they wish
ed they knew more about history and 47 per cent said they planned to visit a his
toric place this summer. Stepping back in time: The defending of Hadrian's Wall 
by the Romans . came second in the poll, while watching Charles Darwin (right) c
onducting experiments at Down House came in fourth . Jeremy Ashbee, Head Propert
ies Curator at English Heritage, said: ‘There are so many things we don’t kn
ow about Stonehenge and perhaps that’s why it topped our poll, with people wan
ting to discover more about who built the stone circle, and why. ‘It is great 
that there is such an appetite for history. While English Heritage can’t liter
ally take people back in time, we can offer the next best thing - the chance to 
experience those places where history was made. 'Over the six week summer holida
y English Heritage will host its biggest ever summer of historical events provid
ing fun, entertaining and inspiring days out for families, culture fans and thos
e keen to find out more about England’s stories.’ Devastating attack: In fif
th place was the chance to watch the first Viking raid taking place at Lindisfar
ne Priory . English Heritage is encouraging visitors to re-enact history for the
mselves this summer, and to share their experiences through social media. Visito
rs can submit photos of themselves on Facebook and Twitter, using the hashtag #m
akinghistory. More information about this summer’s events at iconic historic p
roperties across the country can be found at www.english-heritage.org.uk/events.
 1. Our Neolithic ancestors lifting the stones into place at Stonehenge (47%)2. 
The planning from the Secret Wartime Tunnels underneath Dover Castle of . the ev
acuation of British soldiers from Dunkirk during the Second World . War (34%)3. 
Roman soldiers setting out on patrol along Hadrian’s Wall (26%)4. Scientist Ch
arles Darwin conducting experiments at Down House as he . writes down his revolu
tionary theory of evolution (23%)5. The first Viking raid taking place at Lindis
farne Priory (18%)6. King Harold falling in combat at the Battle of Hastings in 
1066 (17%)7. Queen Victoria and Prince Albert spending time with their children 
in . the Swiss Cottage at their family home, Osborne, on the Isle of Wight . (16
%)8. Henry V preparing his troops at Portchester Castle ahead of invading France
 in the Agincourt campaign (16%)9. Elizabeth I being entertained by Robert Dudle
y at Kenilworth Castle, as he attempts to win her hand in marriage (16%)10. Mary
 Tudor gathering her forces at Framlingham Castle before marching on London to c
laim the crown (14%)