A mother whose premature twins died while she lay in a coma following a tragic a
mbulance mix-up has led the tributes among mourners at her daughters' funeral. J
ocelyn Bennett, 27, attended the service for her children Melody and Rose Clarke
 at Lodge Hill Crematorium in Birmingham yesterday in a wheelchair. She was allo
wed out of hospital especially for the service, which comes after she spent 18 d
ays in a coma only to be told upon regaining consciousness that her daughters ha
d passed away. Scroll down for video . Jocelyn Bennett, 27, attended the service
 for her children Melody and Rose Clarke at Lodge Hill Crematorium in Birmingham
 in a wheelchair. She was supported by friends and family at the service for her
 twin daughters . The white horse-drawn princess carriage carried the coffins to
 the service at Lodge Hill Crematorium . Pink bunting was draped over the coffi
ns of the twin daughters, with their names Melody and Rose on . The twin girls, 
Melody and Rose Clarke (pictured above in images released by the family), died f
rom multi-organ failure on November 4 . Wearing her favourite colour red, she wa
s wheeled behind the twins' tiny coffins as they were carried to the crematorium
 in a white horse-drawn princess carriage. White teddy bears were placed inside 
the carriage along with matching floral tributes. A card showing a picture of Ms
 Bennett and her partner Kevin, 31, cradling their tragic twins simply read: 'Go
d Bless you Melody and Rose.' Reverend Denise Jones, who led the service, paid t
ribute to Melody and Rose saying they were two 'very very special baby girls'. S
he told the 50-strong congregation: 'They were much loved and wanted twin girls 
and baby sisters to little Slater. 'The last few weeks have been a journey of gr
eat courage, determination and faith. The loss of our children is the most painf
ul thing to ever have to experience in our lives. 'Melody and Rose touched the h
earts of all of us here today as well as the community and world and they have l
eft behind a beautiful legacy of love.' Hymns 'All Things Bright and Beautiful' 
and 'Lord of the Dance' were sang by the congregation who all dressed in bright 
colours on the request of Ms Bennett. Mourners were played 'Somewhere over the r
ainbow' at the end of the 40-minute ceremony. The babies were delivered by emerg
ency caesarean while Ms Bennett fought for life after collapsing at her home in 
Druids Heath, Birmingham. She was 32 weeks pregnant when she called 999 early in
 the morning of October 29 after suffering suffered a placental abruption. When 
paramedics arrived 12 minutes later at 5.51am, she was in such pain that she cou
ld not press the door buzzer to let them in. Ms Bennett was 32 weeks pregnant wh
en she collapsed at her Birmingham home on October 29 . Ms Bennett, 27, was allo
wed out of hospital especially for the service, which comes after she spent 18 d
ays in a coma only to be told upon regaining consciousness that her twin daughte
rs had tragically passed away . Ms Bennett was surrounded by friends and family 
at yesterday's service, many of whom offered their support . Ms Bennett attended
 the service in a wheelchair while the coffins of her twins arrived by horse and
 carriage . White teddy bears were placed inside the carriage along with matchin
g floral tributes and pink ribbon . October 29 . 5.39am: Jocelyn calls 999 emerg
ency services suffering extreme stomach pains. 5.51am: First paramedic arrives a
t Pleck House in a rapid response vehicle. 5.58am: First ambulance crew arrives.
 6.01am: Second ambulance crew arrives. 6.03am: Ambulance crews call police. 6.1
0am: Police arrive and gain entry to tower block. 7.01am: Twins delivered by eme
rgency caesarean section. November 4 . 1pm: Twins have life support switched off
 and pass away shortly afterwards. November 16 . 12pm: Jocelyn awakes from coma.
 December 4 . Funeral of Melody and Rose at Lodge Hill Crematorium, Birmingham. 
Tragically, her neighbours refused to buzz the ambulance crew into the council-r
un tower block because they thought the blue flashing lights were from police va
ns about to raid the flats. When police finally arrived to let the paramedics in
, they found Ms Bennett lying unconscious on the floor of flat - 30 minutes afte
r her initial 999 call. She was rushed to hospital where 4lb 1oz Melody and 3lb 
Rose were born by emergency caesarean. Tragically, while Ms Bennett slipped into
 a coma, her baby daughters suffered multi-organ failure and their life support 
was switched off. They passed away on November 4. The devastated father of Ms Be
nnett, Joe, 54, said yesterday: 'This has been a tragic time for Jocelyn and eve
rybody in the family. 'We are grateful for all the support and glad Jocelyn was 
able to attend the service. 'There are still questions which need answering as t
o why the paramedics were unable to get to Jocelyn sooner but today is about say
ing goodbye to Rose and Melody.' Following their deaths, Mr Bennett wrote a poem
 for each of the girls. He previously told how neighbours in the block of flats 
refused to answer their buzzers to police following a recent raid. 'If any resid
ents see flashing blue lights they don't answer their calls because they fear it
'll be another raid. 'No one answered their buzzers when the paramedics tried th
em. 'There are vulnerable people living in that building and the council has a d
uty of care for them. A better system needs to be in place.' Birmingham City Cou
ncil is investigating why paramedics were unable to gain access to Ms Bennett's 
home in Pleck House. A spokesman for Birmingham City Council said: 'We have syst
ems to provide emergency access to our blocks for the emergency services and an 
urgent investigation was commissioned as soon as we were made aware of the matte
r.' Tributes placed with the coffins from relatives of Ms Bennett offered condol
ences and love to the family . Rose and Melody were born prematurely and died ag
ed just a few days old due to severe organ failure . The twins' tiny coffins arr
ived by a horse-drawn princess carriage before floral tributes were placed outsi
de . Prior to their deaths, the Bennett family held a 'Christmas' party for the 
twin girls and had them christened. Ms Bennett's father, his wife Lorraine, and 
the girls' father Mr Clarke held a small party in hospital for the twins. Mr Ben
nett said they documented the party, in which they dressed up in Christmas hats 
and jumpers, so that they could show Ms Bennett photographs when she awoke from 
her coma. She came round on November 16. At the time of the party, Mr Bennett sa
id: 'It was all for Joyce for when she comes round. We can show her the children
 were loved and that they brought love into our lives. 'I don't want her to see 
sad pictures. They were baptised on the day they were born as we knew that was w
hat Joyce had wanted.' After the party, Mr Bennett and his wife dressed the babi
es in the clothes their mother had chosen to take them home in. On the day they 
passed away, the hospital chaplain performed a touching service before the babi
es were placed in their father's arms for one last cuddle. Mr Bennett and his fa
mily held the babies and celebrated an early Christmas with them before their de
aths . The devastated father of Ms Bennett, Joe, 54, said: 'This has been a trag
ic time for Jocelyn and the family' Ms Bennett's rescue was delayed when ambulan
ce crews were unable to get past a locked door at her flat block in Birmingham. 
She had collapsed by other residents failed to buzz paramedics in on October 29 
.