(CNN)Phylicia Rashad says she was misquoted. She says she wasn't being dismissiv
e of the women who've accused Bill Cosby of sexual assault when she came to the 
comedian's defense in an online interview. "I am a woman. I would never do that,
" she said on ABC's "World News Tonight With David Muir" on Wednesday. 'Forget t
hese women' Rashad played Clair Huxtable, Bill Cosby's TV wife, on the groundbre
aking NBC sitcom "The Cosby Show." Cosby's now been accused of harassing, druggi
ng and sexually assaulting multiple women. And in an interview with Showbiz 411,
 Rashad said she never saw any indication of the behavior that the women have at
tributed to Cosby. "Forget these women," Rashad is quoted as telling the outlet.
 "What you're seeing is the destruction of a legacy. And I think it's orchestrat
ed. I don't know why or who's doing it, but it's the legacy. And it's a legacy t
hat is so important to the culture." Fast forward to Wednesday night. Rashad say
s the Showbiz 411 piece didn't accurately reflect what she said -- especially th
e "forget these women" part. "That was a misquote. That is not what I said," Ras
had said. "What I said is, 'this is not about the women. This is about something
 else. This is about the obliteration of legacy.' " In a Wednesday post, Roger F
riedman, the columnist who wrote the Showbiz 411 article, denied that he misquot
ed Rashad, but wrote that he understands how her words were taken out of context
. "She didn't mean for it to be taken the way it was, and I should have punctuat
ed. There was NEVER the meaning in 'Forget those women' that she was saying to a
ctually forget or dismiss then." He continued, "She meant, 'those women aside' -
- as in, she's not talking about that, she's talking about Cosby's legacy being 
destroyed. It was conversational. Somehow this got twisted. I am really sorry if
 the way I presented it made it seem like either one of us was forgetting anyone
." Allred calls Rashad out . In coming to the defense of her TV husband, Rashad 
has now waded into a controversy that continues to dog Cosby. More than 20 women
 have come forward with claims, and a defamation lawsuit has been filed against 
Cosby. On Wednesday, attorney Gloria Allred brought out three more women -- Lind
a Kirkpatrick, Lynn Neal and a woman who chose to be identified only as Kacey --
 who say they were sexually assaulted by the comedian after being drugged by him
. While introducing the women, Allred addressed Rashad's statements to Showbiz 4
11. "Phylicia, you should be supporting these women rather than joining Cosby's 
paid 'attack dogs' who are trying to undermine them in any way that they can," A
llred said. Cosby stays mum . And Cosby? He's maintaining his silence -- as he's
 done while his reputation suffers. He was in Kitchener, Ontario, on Wednesday n
ight for a standup appearance. A few dozen protestors rallied outside, but the s
how went on without a hitch. Larger protests are planned for Thursday night's sh
ows. After his set, Cosby released a statement thanking attendees. "I would like
 to personally thank you for giving me the opportunity to bring laughter back in
to your lives tonight," he said.  Also, I would like to applaud all of you and g
ive you a standing ovation for respecting yourselves, the theatre (Centre In The
 Square) and the event organizers that produced a spectacular show for the Kitch
ener Community." CNN's Eliott C. McLaughlin, Lisa Respers France and Todd Leopol
d contributed to this report from Atlanta, and Paula Newton from Ontario.