By . Marcus Townend For Mail Online . Roger Charlton is to run Al Kazeem in the 
Cumberland Lodge Stakes at Ascot a week on Saturday. The six-year-old, a three-t
ime group one winner in 2013, has raced three times since returning to training 
this summer after encountering fertility problems at stud, winning the 10-furlon
g Group Three Winter Hill Stakes at Windsor before finishing fifth to The Grey G
atsby in the Irish Champion Stakes last time out. Charlton, whose dual Group Thr
ee winning miler Captain Cat tries to win his first Group Two prize in the Joel 
Stakes at Newmarket on Friday, said: ‘The step up in trip and step down in cla
ss is just Al Kazeem needs.’ Al Kazeem will run in the Cumberland Lodge Stakes
 at Ascot a week on Saturday . Roger Charlton believes the step up in trip and s
tep down in class is just what Al Kazeem needs . The Cumberland Lodge Stakes was
 an option for Jeremy Noseda’s Grandeur but the gelding, who has run three tim
es without luck across the Atlantic this summer, will again be on his travel wit
h a shot at the $1million Canadian International at Woodbine on October 19. The 
five-year-old won the Listed Foundation Stakes at Goodwood for the second year r
unning but Noseda will be have to look for a new jockey in Canada. Wednesday’s
 rider Ryan Moore should be needed for Sir Michael Stoute-trained Hillstar, a wi
nner at Newbury on Saturday. Noseda’s Newmarket colleague Roger Varian may hav
e just won his first Classic with Kingston Hill in the St Leger but there was on
e surprising omission from his CV. Until Andre Atzeni-ridden 15-8 favourite Amer
ican Artist passed the post first in the British Stallions Stud Maiden Stakes, V
arian had never had a winner at Goodwood from 50 runners in his four-year traini
ng career. Varian confirmed that Kingston Hill was on course for a crack at the 
Prix de L’Arc de Triomphe at Longchamp on October 5, saying: ‘It is all syst
ems go – I have been very pleased with his since the Leger.’ Roger Varians s
ays Group One Moyglare Stud Stakes winner Cursory Glance might run again this se
ason . Varian also refused to rule out the possibility that his Group One Moygla
re Stud Stakes winner Cursory Glance might run again this season. Moore was also
 successful on his father Gary’s Good Luck Charm. That stretched his title rac
e lead to five (142-137) over Richard Hughes, who also picked up a two-day whip 
ban on runner-up Shadow Rock.