Mobile, Alabama (CNN) -- Brianna Adkins stepped off the Carnival Triumph early F
riday and into the arms of her anxious parents, bringing to an end the nightmari
sh journey aboard a crippled ship that was towed to port days after it was due. 
It was a big, tight hug between 18-year-old Adkins and her mom and dad, the kind
 filled with the emotion that reflected the days of uncertainty after the cruise
 ship was left virtually dead in the water after a reported engine fire knocked 
out power. "Just to be with them, just to let them know I'm safe," Adkins said, 
fighting back tears. "It means just so much to be with them ... you have no idea
." My celebration trup on the Carnival Triumph: From joy to misery . A near part
y-atmosphere abounded aboard the cruise ship as it docked late Thursday at the A
labama Cruise Terminal, where some passengers hung over balcony rails, while oth
ers danced and waved signs. "I kissed the ground when I got off," said Adkins of
 Noblesville, Indiana, just north of Indianapolis. The saga began unfolding earl
y Sunday morning as the Carnival Triumph, originally carrying 3,143 passengers a
nd 1,086 crew members, was making its way to Galveston, Texas, when a fire left 
the vessel listing to the side and drifting in the Gulf of Mexico. The ship drif
ted nearly 90 miles before enough tugboats arrived to tow the massive cruise shi
p to Mobile. Almost immediately, reports emerged on social media of deterioratin
g conditions aboard the ship. Passengers reported sewage sloshing in the hallway
s and, in some cases, running down the walls of cabins. Still others said the po
wer outage forced people, especially those in the lower decks or inside cabins, 
to drag their mattresses to outside decks because of stifling heat. The power ou
tage also made it impossible for passengers to call loved ones. Why did it take 
five days? For those who were able to get messages out -- drafting on wireless f
rom cruise ships dropping supplies -- it was a few moments to reassure loved one
s they were OK. Still, for Adkins and others there was nothing better than being
 able to put both feet on firm ground while wrapping their arms around family me
mbers. "The unknown was the worst part," Adkins mother, Beth, said. About 75 fam
ilies were on hand, according to a spokesman for the City of Mobile, at the Alab
ama Cruise Terminal. Family members who spoke to CNN said they had come from Ind
iana, Kentucky, Louisiana and Texas. Some had come in as early as Wednesday but 
the bulk of people arrived Thursday afternoon, with each hour bringing a few mor
e cars. After a bad cruise, can you cruise into court? Most of the anxious famil
ies couldn't bear the thought of their relatives being on a bus for hours and ha
d gotten hotel rooms in Mobile where the homecoming would include a long shower 
and a meal. Brooklyn Burgess, 18, got off the ship scanning the crowd for father
 and brother, who had driven from their Carthage, Mississippi, home to get them 
and bring them home. There in the crowd, she and her mother, who was traveling w
ith her, found the family. Her father picked her up in a tight hug, and Burgess 
started to cry. "I said I don't have a boyfriend. ... I sure hope somebody who m
issed me is there waiting for me," she said, her eyes red from tears. Video: Pas
sengers spell out help . For others, it will be a little longer before they conn
ect with loved ones. Brittany Ferguson and Kendall Jenkins, both 24, got off the
 ship cheering and dancing. Jenkins went so far as to lay kneel down and kiss th
e ground. "We won this cruise at a Houston Rockets game. Lucky us," Ferguson sai
d, laughing. They are among the many who boarded one of the more than 100 motor 
coaches that were reserved by Carnival to take them to New Orleans where many wi
ll overnight before continuing their journey home. The two are headed home to Ho
uston. But that's OK with the Ferguson and Jenkins because they have "land under
 our feet." Spate of fires hits cruise industry . CNN's Erin Burnett and Martin 
Savidge reported from Mobile, Alabama; Chelsea J. Carter wrote from Atlanta.