A man who bit a dog during an altercation outside a corner shop later ran inside
 and died from a suspected heart attack after 'being restrained', it has emerged
. The man, who is in his forties, bit the dog – believed to be a Staffordshire
 bull terrier – during a dispute with a 45-year-old man in Cambridge. He then 
ran into a nearby One Stop convenience shop, reportedly in his socks, and died a
 short time later, after allegedly being held by four men. The man, in his fort
ies, bit the dog - believed to be a Staffordshire bull terrier - during a disput
e with a 45-year-old man outside a One Stop shop (pictured) in Cambridge. He lat
er died of a suspected heart attack inside . Police and paramedics were called t
o the store following the incident at about 6.30am on Monday, having received re
ports of a man in cardiac arrest. The man, who is believed to live in the area b
ut has not yet been formally identified, was pronounced dead a short time later.
 A post mortem examination to determine his cause of death proved inconclusive, 
police said. Further tests will now be carried out at Peterborough City Hospital
, including a toxicology test. Four men, aged 40, 44, 69, and 50, from  Cambridg
eshire, were arrested on suspicion of manslaughter following his death. They hav
e since been released on bail until February 11. A 45-year-old man, who was alle
gedly involved in the original dispute outside the shop, was arrested on suspici
on of grievous bodily harm but has since been released without charge. Police sa
id no further action would be taken. Witnesses to the incident described seeing 
two men 'shouting and struggling' in the street, prior to the man's death. Saman
tha Lander, a resident on Dudley Road, told Cambridge News that she was awoken b
y the sound of shouting and looked out of the window to see a struggle, which ap
peared to involve a dog that looked like a Staffordshire bull terrier. It is bel
ieved the man who died had run off into the shop following the dispute and was b
eing restrained by four men in the store when he became unwell. East of England 
Ambulance Service confirmed a rapid response car, ambulance and an air ambulanc
e were sent to the scene after receiving reports of a man having a cardiac arres
t. A spokesman said: 'We were called at 6.51am on Monday and were on scene in s
even minutes. 'Unfortunately despite the best efforts of everyone involved a mal
e patient sadly died at the scene.' The spokesman confirmed paramedics performed
 CPR on the patient. Police said they received reports that the man had bit a do
g outside the convenience store in Cambridge (pictured) during the dispute and l
ater ran off into the store, where he passed away a short time later . Cambridge
shire Constabulary said the man's death was being treated as 'unexplained' but c
onfirmed it was not deemed to be suspicious. A spokesman said: 'The death of a m
an on December 15 in Cambridge is being treated as unexplained by police. 'The m
an, who is in his 40s and from Cambridge, died after police were called to an in
cident at a premises in Ditton Lane at just after 6.30am. 'A post mortem has pro
ved inconclusive and further tests will have to be carried out. 'There was an al
tercation outside the shop. We know this involved the man who died and a 45-year
-old man. 'The man who died bit the dog belonging to the 45-year-old man, who wa
s arrested on suspicion of grievous bodily harm and has now been released with n
o further action. 'Four men arrested on suspicion of manslaughter following the 
death have been released on police bail.' The One Stop shop was closed for some 
time following the incident, but it was reopened at 7am today. A spokesman said:
 'We are aware of an incident at our store in Ditton Lane, Cambridge. We are hel
ping the police with their investigation.'