By . Daily Mail Reporter . PUBLISHED: . 18:14 EST, 19 August 2013 . | . UPDATED:
 . 09:05 EST, 20 August 2013 . It's the hilarious prank that turned a walk in th
e park into a wild bunga bunga party. Pranksters Roman Atwood and Dennis Roadys 
pitched a tent in various outdoor spaces like parks and sidewalks and viciously 
shook it from the inside as an audio recording of a woman in the throes of passi
on plays loudly. The not-so-subtle YouTube clip has gone viral with nearly 400,0
00 views. But it's the hilarious reactions of unsuspecting passersby that really
 makes the footage so watchable. SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO . Hilarious: This group o
f guys laugh hysterically as the tent shakes behind them . Overshare: This passe
rby holds his phone near the tent to share the hilarious sounds with the person 
he was speaking to . Prankster: Dennis Roadys holds up a recording device playin
g the sound of a woman having sex as he stands inside the tent and shakes it . A
 group of three young men laugh hysterically, holding their sides, as the tent s
hakes behind them. One pedestrian stops talking on his phone and holds it up nex
t to the shaking tent so the person he is talking to can hear the screams of the
 woman. Another man starts taking photos of the vibrating tent, while security g
uards poke around at the entrance of the structure to see what's going on. But t
he prank doesn't go down well with law enforcers, who received numerous reports 
from concerned locals that a woman was being assaulted in the tent. More... A re
al cat burglar! Cheeky Norris steals jumpers, dusters, food and even underwear d
uring night prowls . Who'd spend £70k on a birthday bash for one-year-olds? Elt
on John's favourite party planner explains why parents are splashing out on lavi
sh celebrations for kids . Smoke and mirrors: Artist creates stunning pyrotechni
c images by torching gasoline in mid-air (with a little help from Photoshop) One
 of the officers opened the tent and demanded the pranksters hand over their ide
ntification. 'Do you have ID because this has been called in as a rape?' the ira
te officer demands, as another two cops stand nearby. 'You know who I am...Is th
ere any crime committed,' the prankster, who can't be seen on camera, said, ackn
owledging he is already known to local police. The officer responds that a crime
 may have been committed. 'Yeah there might be [a crime committed] once we talk 
to the prosecutor's office,' he said. 'We're going to send it up because that's,
 that's just what's going to happen.' Curious: A security guard pokes his head i
nto the tent to find out what's going on . Snapper: This man laughs hysterically
 as he starts taking photos of the shaking tent . Humored: These women are in st
itches at the sight of the shaking tent . Cheeky: Pranksters Dennis Roadys and R
oman Atwood creep up behind two unsuspecting men sitting on a bench carrying a t
ent before they play the prank . Shocked: The surprised men jump to their feet a
fter hearing the sounds of a woman being pleasured . Atwood and Roadys are proli
fic pranksters, with close to 1.5 million followers on YouTube and across other 
social media platforms. According to Columbus Underground, Atwood has been filmi
ng and producing videos since high school, including a series of DVDs called 'Th
e Nerd Herd' which he sold at Warp Tour 2006. Roadys started performing standup 
comedy when he was 17 in Cincinnati, and served in the U.S. Army from 2001 to 20
10. The comedy duo met each other through a Craigslist advertisement several yea
rs ago. 'We film for fun. Comedy is what we all enjoy. Our videos just recently 
became 'wildly popular' and definitely surpassed our expectations,' Roadys told 
Columbus Underground. 'Before, we were just another YouTube channel. Now, we hav
e been dubbed a 'viral video production team' by whatsgoodmusic.com and 'the new
 internet standard' by a TBS Television Producer.' Confrontation: A police offic
er inspects the tent after receiving complaints . Interrogation: This police off
icer demands ID from the pranksters after locals reported a woman was being assa
ulted inside the tent .