Shocking claims of abuse within a secret NSW-based religious group have come to 
light after former members revealed the years of torment they endured at the han
ds their 'cult leader'. Self-styled guru Pastor Scott Williams allegedly used hi
s warped brand of evangelical Pentecostalism to run a secret homosexual sex ring
 while misusing huge amounts of member donations for his own personal use. In ha
rrowing and chilling detail, a young woman has recounted the experience of being
 born into and growing up in a twisted religious cult, as part of an in depth in
vestigation by ABC's Four Corners. Emily Wassmann's involvement in the Christian
 Assemblies International (CAI) was predetermined before her birth, as her paren
ts were both members of the 'church', and she described her childhood as a serie
s of terrifying, confusing and lonely circumstances. Scroll down for video . Emi
ly Wassmann relived the horrific experience of growing up in cult religious grou
p Christian Assemblies International in a revealing interview with ABC'S Four Co
rners on Monday evening . 'The teaching was that a child was born evil and that 
that had to be beaten out of them with a rod of iron,' she told the program. Den
ied a life outside the church, at 14 Ms Wassaman told her parents she wanted to 
leave the group. She stayed living in their house but said they did not speak to
 her. Shortly after, at just 15, she was sent away to Canada to live with anothe
r church member. Here the young woman battled with her mental health and came cl
ose to attempting suicide on a number of occasions. Unlike some, Ms Wassmann and
 her parents escaped the Assembly, but said other young people who were born int
o the cult and left all experienced similar hardship. 'Every. Single. One.' When
 she was just 15, Ms Wassmann, pictured with her father, was sent away to live w
ith church members in Canada after she told her parents she wanted to leave the 
group . Also revealed on the program was the slave-like status women in the chur
ch were afforded, and the verbal and physical abuse they suffered at the hands o
f the men in the CAI. Every aspect of their lives were monitored, from what they
 wore to how they raised their children. But the most shocking account was from 
a man named Gunther Frantz whose former wife was beaten by other men. In front o
f a group of men, stripped down to her underwear Mr Frantz's former wife was bea
ten with a wooden stick while her husband wasn't present - apparently for her la
ck of obedience. She was pregnant at the time, but her husband was unaware of th
is. When asked how he felt when he discovered his wife had been physically assau
lted in his absence, Mr Frantz simply said: 'Makes you sick to your guts, doesn'
t it?' Gunther Frantz was one of Pastor Scott Williams' closest confidantes in t
he cult, and revealed his former wife had been beaten by other men in the church
 . Also aired in the shocking report, dozens of former members said bizarre sexu
al rituals were carried out in secret by Mr Williams, who had been given authori
sation by God to sidestep biblical commands against homosexuality and train his 
male member to be sexually obedient. The abuse detailed by the men and women, wh
o until now have remained silent out of fear and shame, ranged from spiritual, f
inancial, verbal and physical abuse to sexual abuse of adult male members. 'I ha
ven't come across anything like it,' Four Corners reporter Caro Meldrum-Hanna to
ld Daily Mail Australia ahead of the episode going to air on Monday night. 'Form
er members describe it as a cult.' Pastor Scott Williams allegedly used his warp
ed brand of evangelical Pentecostalism to run a secret homosexual sex ring while
 misusing huge amounts of member donations for his own personal use . Meldrum-Ha
nna, who came across the story back in 2010, spoke to dozens of former members i
n Australia and across the world and she said all of their claims made against M
r Williams were similar. 'Initially it appeared almost unbelievable because it w
as so extreme. But it happened,' she said. 'In the first six months you are trea
ted like royalty but after that the screws turn. In order for Scott Williams to 
trust you, you had to give more of yourself, particularly for men.' Former membe
rs say they were recruited to the church as teenagers and young adults and they 
were brainwashed into believing Mr Williams was 'The Anointed One'. Former membe
rs say they were recruited to the church as teenagers and young adults and they 
were brainwashed into believing Mr Williams was 'The Anointed One' 'These people
 are so normal. Many weren't religious but they say they were preyed upon. So yo
u can get an idea of how they were controlled,' Meldrum-Hanna said. Mr Williams 
left Australia 38 years ago to convert hundreds of young people to his religious
 group throughout Europe. The headquarters of CAI are now in Coffs Harbour in no
rthern NSW. Meldrum-Hanna said the revelations weren't just based on the testimo
ny of former members, but documents and financial records from CAI. 'There was e
normous pressure placed on members to donate to this organisation. We're talking
 10 percent of their gross income plus many more offerings throughout the year,'
 she said. The various former members interviewed by Four Corners left Mr Willia
ms' group over a number of years but said there was a 'mass exodus' in 2006. The
 abuse detailed by the men and women, who until now have remained silent out of 
fear and shame, will be aired as part of a four-year ABC investigation . The hea
dquarters of Christian Assemblies International group is now in Coffs Harbour in
 northern NSW . 'The ones who allege they were abused by Scott Williams... were 
concerned about others, like their own sons, so they came together to blow the w
histle internally within the church,' Meldrum-Hanna said. Police carried out a f
our-year investigation of the CAI group and the results of that investigation wi
ll be revealed by Four Corners when it airs on Monday night. The program approac
hed Mr Williams and senior people in the church about the claims, but all reques
ts for interviews were denied. Mr Williams, now 70, lives with his wife Ree in a
 beachfront apartment in Coffs Harbour. It is one of the many properties he purc
hased with church donations.