They were taken on as volunteers and the service has since decided to employ an 
extra four full-time counsellors.
Documents seen by the BBC show its welfare and counselling team was almost halve
d between 2008 and June 2017.
The London Fire Brigade said the mental health of staff was a "main priority".
At least 80 people died in the fire in North Kensington on 14 June.
More than 200 firefighters attended the tower block at the time, rescuing 65 peo
ple.
The extra four full-time counsellors would effectively return staffing levels to
 those in 2008.
The BBC understands there was the equivalent of 9.6 full-time counsellors workin
g for the brigade in 2008. By the time of the fire, the number had been cut to 5
.2.
The London Fire Brigade is using its reserve budget to pay for the extra counsel
lors.
But London Mayor Sadiq Khan has written to the government asking for it to provi
de extra funding for the fire service's staffing, as well as aerial appliances a
nd improved breathing apparatus.
The fire service did not confirm the extent of the support the 60 voluntary coun
sellors have given or if they are still being used.
Siobhan McGee, a trauma specialist and former London Fire Brigade counsellor, sa
id while firefighters were generally "very resilient people" it was normal for s
ymptoms of traumatic stress to occur following a tragedy such as the Grenfell fi
re.
"They may be experiencing things like physically shaking in their body, elevated
 heart-rate," she told Victoria Derbyshire.
"They might have disturbed sleep, they might have nightmares, they might have in
duced images and flashbacks."
She said over time, as trauma memory is processed by the brain, images and memor
ies become less distressing.
A spokesman for the London Fire Brigade said every firefighter who attended Gren
fell was individually spoken to by a counsellor before they came off duty.
"When they returned to duty our staff also had access to a counsellor, and the b
rigade counselling team was reinforced by officer support from the NHS and other
 fire and rescue services," the spokesman said.
"Going forward, counsellors are visiting staff this week and carrying out a psyc
hological health check of each individual and identifying further staff who migh
t need support.
"We have an on-call counsellor available to all staff 24/7. The ongoing mental w
ellbeing of all of our staff continues to be a main priority."
The Victoria Derbyshire programme is broadcast on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:
00 on BBC Two and the BBC News channel.