Poppi Worthington was found with serious injuries at her home in Barrow, Cumbria
, in December 2012.
In January, a judge ruled she had been sexually assaulted by her father, Paul Wo
rthington, who denies any wrongdoing.
He was arrested on suspicion of sexual assault in August 2013.
Reaction to the CPS announcement
Key dates in Poppi Worthington case
A CPS spokesman said: "The CPS has looked at the original decision in this case 
that there was insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of convicti
on - as we often do in other cases.
"We have reached the same conclusion."
In a statement released following the announcement, Poppi's mother, who cannot b
e named for legal reasons, said she was "desperate" to understand more about the
 police investigation and the events leading up to her daughter's death.
Speaking on her behalf, solicitor Fiona McGhie, said: "She is angry and disappoi
nted with the decision by the Crown Prosecution Service and wishes to be given t
ime and space at this difficult time as we approach the inquest."
Cumbria Police, which is being investigated by the police watchdog, has been cri
ticised over its investigation into the death, after it emerged officers failed 
to preserve vital items for forensic analysis.
Chief Constable Jerry Graham said the force "deeply regrets" the way the case wa
s handled.
In January, Mr Justice Peter Jackson's ruling was made as part of care proceedin
gs in the family court involving Poppi's siblings.
He concluded the force carried out no "real" investigation into the death of the
 toddler for nine months, and highlighted a list of basic errors in evidence-gat
hering.
Speaking after the CPS announced its decision, Mr Graham said the investigation 
had fallen "below standard".
He said: "I would like to make a full and heartfelt apology to Poppi's family an
d all those who loved her."
He said the main failings were not preserving potentially relevant evidence from
 Poppi's home and the length of time it took to interview family and key witness
es.
He also said forensic analysis was not carried out quickly enough and accurate r
ecords were not kept.
Prosecutors originally decided there was insufficient evidence "to provide a rea
listic prospect of conviction", but in January the CPS said it was reviewing the
 case.
Cumbria police and crime commissioner Peter McCall said: "I am disappointed that
 despite a re-investigation no criminal charges will be brought.
"The constabulary has let Poppi down as no-one has been brought to justice for h
er tragic death."
Barrow Labour MP John Woodcock said he was "bitterly disappointed" at the CPS de
cision and that Cumbria Police's mistakes had "thwarted the chance of ever getti
ng justice for Poppi's death".
A second inquest into the toddler's death is due to take place in the autumn.