By . Mark Prigg . PUBLISHED: . 18:29 EST, 7 March 2014 . | . UPDATED: . 08:11 ES
T, 8 March 2014 . Water-carved rocks high on a Martian mountain have revealed th
at Nasa's Curiosity rover could actually be driving through a giant dried up lak
e bed. The new finding comes from Gale Crater, where NASA's Curiosity rover land
ed in 2012. The reveal a series of gridlike rock formations known as boxwork on 
Mount Sharp—an 18,000-foot (5,486-meter) mound in the middle of Gale Crater. S
croll down for video . The signs of a giant lake: The boxwork structures on Moun
t Sharp are shown in red (upper left inset map, Gale Crater). Lower right inset 
shows detail of boxwork formation (scale bar represents 50¿meters).  Gale crate
r is 155¿km in diameter for scale. Researchers believe the telltale patterns co
uld only have been made by water - meaning the mountain was once surrounded by a
 giant lake. 'Detailed mapping of the filled fracture network on Mount Sharp ind
icates that this sedimentary layer most likely represents large-scale boxwork fa
bricsm' they say in the journal Journal of Geological Research: Planets. 'These 
deposits provide evidence for extensive and relatively rapid cement formation, w
hich could be beneficial to the preservation of organic compounds, 1050 m abov
e the current floor of Gale Crater.' By studying images of the surface, the team
 were even able to estimate how big the giant lake was. 'Volumes of diagenetic c
ements can be measured from orbital imagery, and based on these measurements and
 an assumed chemistry, the minimum volume of water required to form the cements 
measured was calculated to be about 0.4 km3.' Spread around Mount Sharp, that 
would translate to roughly the amount of water in Boston Harbor. The researchers
 say they have the perfect opportunity to study the area, thanks to the Curiosit
y rover, and say it could still hold organic compounds from the ancient lake. Th
e possible ancient configurations of Mount Sharp that would allow sufficient gro
undwater flow to form the boxwork structures spotted . 'The Mars Science Laborat
ory Curiosity rover is capable of driving to the boxwork layer from its landing 
site on the floor of Gale Crater and investigating the chemical composition and 
textures of these deposits from the surface. 'This site is a possible target for
 investigation by Curiosity as a location where a series of postdepositional wat
er-based processes are interpreted that left extensive exposed diagenetic cement
s, which are indicative of possibly favorable conditions for preservation of org
anic compounds.'