An iPhone-shaped memorial to Apple founder Steve Jobs has been removed from outs
ide a Russian university campus after current CEO Tim Cook announced that he is 
gay. The 6ft-high statue had been put up outside a college in St Petersburg in J
anuary 2013 by a Russian group of companies called West European Financial Union
 (ZEFS) to honour Jobs. However, in a statement on Monday, ZEFS said they had to
 abide by a law combating 'gay propaganda' and that the memorial had been remove
d. Scroll down for video . Removed: An iPhone-shaped memorial to Apple founder S
teve Jobs has been removed from outside a Russian university campus after curren
t CEO Tim Cook (right) announced that he was gay . The monument was dismantled o
n Friday, the day after Cook, who succeeded Jobs at the helm of the company,  p
ublicly acknowledged he was gay in an essay. 'In Russia, gay propaganda and othe
r sexual perversions . among minors are prohibited by law,' ZEFS said, noting th
at the . memorial had been 'in an area of direct access for young . students and
 scholars'. 'After Apple CEO Tim Cook publicly called for sodomy, the . monument
 was taken down to abide to the Russian federal law . protecting children from i
nformation promoting denial of . traditional family values.' Dismantled: The mon
ument was dismantled on Friday, the day after Cook, who succeeded Jobs at the he
lm of the company, publicly acknowledged he was gay in an essay . Last year, Rus
sian President Vladimir Putin signed a law prohibiting what he called the spread
 of 'gay propaganda' among minors, and promoting 'traditional values'. Putin cla
ims gay people in Russia are not discriminated against, and the law was needed o
nly to protect young people. However, members of the gay community say the law h
as led to increased problems for them. The 'gay propaganda' law caused outrage a
nd protests in the West, particularly in the run-up to the Winter Olympics in th
e Black Sea resort of Sochi in February. Anger: The 'gay propaganda' law caused
 outrage and protests in the West, particularly in the run-up to the Winter Olym
pics in the Black Sea resort of Sochi in February . Cook said he had decided to 
come out to help move forward . civil rights, confirming a fact that had been wi
dely known in . the Silicon Valley tech community but was rarely discussed. Vita
ly Milonov, a St Petersburg lawyer and campaigner against gay rights was among t
hose behind the new law and, according to Russian media, has called for Cook to 
be banned from visiting Russia. ZEFS companies offer a range of products and ser
vices in areas such as real estate, construction, advertising and micro-financin
g. ZEFS head Maxim Dolgopolov, who ordered the removal . of the monument, expres
sed opposition to personal sanctions in . Monday's statement, but supported the 
'protection of traditional . values' by law. 'Sin should not become the norm. Th
ere is nothing to do in . Russia for whose who intend to violate our laws,' he s
aid.