Mauricio Pochettino has ordered his Tottenham players to be more aggressive afte
r they slumped to a dismal defeat at home to West Brom at the weekend. Spurs fac
e Nottingham Forest on Wednesday night in the Capital One Cup, with Pochettino e
xpecting his players to show more energy and fight than they did in the league. 
It has been a disappointing start to his reign at the club, after replacing Tim 
Sherwood in the summer, and he is demanding that his players do something about 
it. Mauricio Pochettino has ordered his Tottenham players to be more aggressive 
after they slumped to a defeat . West Brom beat Tottenham Hotspur at the weekend
 and Mauricio Pochettino wants an immediate reaction . Mauricio Pochettino has d
emanded his Tottenham players show more aggression in the Premier League . Poche
ttino said: 'We need to move the ball quicker, faster. West Brom played a long b
all and to try to win the second ball. Maybe we have problem because the second 
ball we arrive late always, we arrive a lot of time to late in the box of the op
position. We need to be more aggressive in the last third of the pitch. 'We had 
the possession more than 60 per cent, after we need all we create from the back 
and build, we need to be more aggressive. We are in the moment we need to set ou
r style and philosophy. This is a normal process, it is maybe up and down in the
 beginning, but we need to be strong and to carry on and to work hard and believ
e in our way. 'We are ready to compete and to fight against Forest because we ex
pect a tough game.' Mauricio Pochettino wants to see a change: 'We need to be mo
re aggressive in the last third of the pitch' Spurs won their opening four games
 of the season under the Argentine, but have now drawn two and lost two of their
 last four. But Pochettino insisted that the job is not bigger than he anticipat
ed when he arrived in the summer. He added: 'No not really. When we arrive here 
we know the situation. We know that maybe happen up and down in different period
. Always different when you arrive at a new club with different players you need
 time to get to know each other. 'I'm not worrying about the situation. I believ
e at the moment to we need to have more points to reflect the table, it's the be
ginning of the season, it's not how we start it's how we finish. We are sure our
 team will improve not only in how we play but in the results in the next few we
eks.' Andros Townsend has returned from injury after missing Tottenham's West Br
om defeat. Tottenham Hotspur face Nottingham Forest on Wednesday night in the Ca
pital One Cup third round .